When creativity is supported and rewarded, it transforms
into a constructive force that leads individuals and societies to growth and
success. When creativity is denied and suppressed, it leads to hostility,
resentment and destruction. Creativity is characterised by intense internal drives.
For creativity to function effectively it needs to be stabilised and guided
from an early age. However, society, schools and parents often sanction and
ostracise children and young people who display creativity and imagination.
They demand them to conform to cultural norms and traditions. To withstand this tension, this tug-of-war between
creative and conventional self, young people need great courage. To reconcile
the opposites they engage in the balancing act. They appear both dogmatic and
open, naive and sophisticated, often at the same time. Their complex
personalities seem a mystery, less accepted and understood, to the people who fit
into the conventional boundaries more naturally. But if young people lack strength they may lose this
‘war’. Forcing their creativity underground, they can turn antisocial and
destructive. Abandoning or distorting their creative urges, they may end up
with wrong self-concepts, learning difficulties, behaviour problems,
delinquency, depression, attention-seeking, anxiety, or psychosis. A research studying three groups, the actors,
delinquents, and creative problem-solvers (that were neither actors or
delinquents), came up with the surprising findings[1].
Although the group of delinquents scored high on creativity (on the speed of
producing ideas), they scored low on ‘creative production’ which indicated that
they were rarely involved in a process of putting their creativity to practice.
They also lacked rich and full imagination and were low on energy. In contrast,
the groups of actors and problem-solvers displayed self-confidence and energy
and rated high on ‘creative production’. The study concluded that creativity of
the delinquents most likely had been severely suppressed or even denied to them
as they were growing up. Not utilised in a positive way, their need for action
discharged in attacks on property and people. Creativity is a powerful force that needs constructive expression.
Suppressing it damages individuals and may result in socially and emotionally
deviant groups of population. Society, schools and families should therefore accept,
support and reward creativity. Not should, must. Encouraging creativity does not need a great outlay of
funds. Creative arts and drama in school, for example, require little funding
and training. A sensitive teacher or parent can easily provide meaningful
creative experience for children. And with a proper guidance and advice, young
people can learn the strategies for coping with the conflict between creativity
and conformity. Learning to give and receive constructive criticism, focusing
on one action at the time, sharing ideas and explaining what they try to accomplish,
and building up a ‘credit rating’ of success could be some of the survival techniques.  Alla Tkachuk is the
Founder of a UK creativity education charity MASK, mobileartschoolinkenya.org.
Contact: alla@mobileartschoolinkenya or @MASKcharity [1] Gail Lewis, ‘The need to create:
constructive and destructive behaviour in creatively gifted children’,
Northwestern State University, Gifted
Education International, Vol. 7,
1991