City Hall is planning to buy 150 garbage skips for Sh37.5 million to curb illegal dumping and ease collection. The waste bins will be placed in estates, along major roads and in the Central Business District. Environment executive Larry Wambua said on Friday that 20 garbage skips have already been bought and taken to markets. He said garbage collection had become a crisis with waste being disposed anywhere. The garbage skips have been placed in Muthurwa, Burma and City markets. “I can confirm that waste collection is taking place on a daily basis,” Wambua told the Star on the phone. The skips to be bought will be placed within the CBD and along major roads. City Hall collects an average of 2,300 tonnes of garbage per day. But the city still lags behind in waste collection compared with other East African capitals. The World Bank says Nairobi collects only 50 per cent of its waste. Addis Abba tops the regions with 70 per cent collection and Kampala is second at 65 per cent. A report by National Environment Management Authority said less than half of the city’s population has access to waste collection. Wambua said the city is making progress in garbage collection. In 2016, the county was collecting 1,800 tonnes. “Environmental cleanliness is everyone’s responsibility. Residents have expressed willingness to join us in maintaining a clean environment,” Wambua said. Early this year, Governor Mike Sonko laid out plans to for the construction of the Dandora waste-to-energy recycling plant. The announcement followed the city’s acquisition for a title deed for the Dandora dumpiste. The Sh28 billion plant is expected to produce 160MW per day. “We are in the final stages and expect to have the ground-breaking in December. It is a process but we’re certain the plant will solve a lot of Nairobi’s waste disposal challenges,” Wambua said. President Uhuru Kenyatta and UN-Habitat executive director Maimuna Sharif are expected to take part in this month’s city clean-up exercise to be held on Saturday. The event will end at St Anne’s Gilrs High School along Jogoo Road. During the World Habitat Day held at the UNEP headquarters in Gigiri on Monday, Uhuru praised the clean-up campaign. The My Responsibility’ campaign has successfully taken place in all the 85 wards over the past three months.