The UK is committed to improving its partnership with Kenya to ensure the Lapsset project is implemented successfully, High Commissioner Nic Hailey said on Friday. The Sh2.7 trillion Lamu Port South Sudan Ethiopia Transport corridor is expected to boost transport and trade in East Africa. The project brings together Kenya, Ethiopia and South Sudan. It comprises seven key infrastructure projects — starting with a new 32-berth port in Lamu, interregional highways from Lamu to Isiolo, Isiolo to Juba (South Sudan), Isiolo to Addis Ababa (Ethiopia), and Lamu to Garsen. According to the Lapsset website, the berths will cost about Sh500 billion. The government has partnered with the private sector to fund the project. Hailey said the megaproject will open up Kenya to the rest of Africa and the Middle East and attract more commercial investment and shipping. The  UK is keen to provide vocational training for Lamu youths to ensure they benefit, he said. “I’m touched by the progress of the Lapsset thus far. The UK is keen to help in every way possible for Kenya to realise its objectives. We are looking forward to the project because we are confident of its ability to open up Kenya to the rest of Africa and the Middle East,” Hailey said. The envoy said his country will work together with all sector players. The upcoming Lamu port is a huge investment plan for Kenya compared to the Port of Mombasa, he said. “The UK has been providing vocational training for local communities in various sectors and that’s exactly what we’ll do for the Lapsset so locals can benefit directly,” Hailey said. Hailey was accompanied by incoming Lapsset chairperson Titus Ibui who takes over from Francis Muthaura. Also present were Lamu county commissioner Joseph Kanyiri and Lapsset project manager Peter Oremo. Ibui urged other countries to support the project where possible. The first three berths at the site are 55 per cent completed, with the first expected to be ready by 2019. The Lapsset building has already been completed. The project also includes a crude oil pipeline from Lamu to Isiolo and Isiolo to Juba; a product oil pipeline from Lamu to Isiolo and Isiolo to Addis Ababa; interregional standard gauge railway lines from Lamu to Isiolo, Isiolo to Juba, Isiolo to Addis Ababa, and Nairobi to Isiolo; three international airports at Lamu, Isiolo, and Lake Turkana; three resort cities in Lamu, Isiolo and Lake Turkana; and the multipurpose High Grand Falls Dam along the Tana River. Priority project components are underway after detailed engineering studies were carried out. Environmental and social impact assessment study was completed and approved in 2014. Other components that have been completed include port police station, electric power connection to the national grid, and water supply to the port. Port Housing for management and security is still under construction.