Berlin Marathon champion Eliud Kipchoge redefines being cool as he leaves me steamed and puffed up, top CNN Business anchor Richard Quest has said. Quest, who is in Kenya, met Kipchoge at Karura Forest in Nairobi for an afternoon run, after which they sat down for an interview. Kipchoge broke the world record in the Berlin Marathon in September clocking 2 hours, 01 minute and 39 seconds. "He is amazing and when he talks about his run, he talks about it with a lot of dedication and passion... I tried to drink from the well yesterday... I stood next to him and asked how I can also do it," he said during an interview with KISS FM on Tuesday. "... he says that all I need is a combination of practice and belief.. he is way too modest."  CNN Business anchor Richard Quest with Kenya's world Champion Eliud Kipchoge at Karura forest on Monday./COURTESY Quest noted that Kipchoge would not let him into the initiation process, adding that it is a top kept secret. "He would not discuss the initiation ceremony with me... I tried to push him but he could not tell me about it... he just looked at me and gave me a beatific smile and he said I will learn one day," he said.  CNN Business anchor Richard Quest with Kenya's world Champion Eliud Kipchoge at Karura forest on Monday./COURTESY The CNN anchor is also expected to join passengers on the inaugural Kenya Airways flight to New York on October 28. "The flight is important and it says a lot the about Kenya Airways... For an airline to fly to John F. Kennedy International Airport? That is a big deal," Quest said. Quest began his Kenya tour with top athlete Kipchoge in Nairobi. He arrived in the country on Monday morning and hit the ground running, quite literally. Later this week, his show Quest Means Business will go live from Kenya on Thursday and Friday. He will later join 468 passengers on the Kenya Airways inaugural flight to New-York on Sunday, October 28. President Uhuru Kenyatta will flag off the flight at the Jomo Kenyatta International Airport (JKIA). Read: Two young innovators get tickets for inaugural direct flight to New York Also read: US in 15 hours: KQ's maiden New York flight to cost Sh89,000 Earlier, Quest told Capital FM that Kenya offers a conducive environment for entrepreneurs but warned that elections pose a major challenge. “Kenya is a wonderful place to do business up until there is an election,” he said. Quest noted that proper government policies can prevent this and Kenya can learn from Brexit. Click here for the latest political news