Publishers and the curriculum developer yesterday dismissed social media and other claims that textbooks were extolling politicians’ greed and lavish lifestyle. They were referring to claims, also in national dailies and reports on the BBC, that a number of illustrations send the ‘wrong’ messages to impressionable children. Publishers and the Kenya Institution of Curriculum Development yesterday were defensive and said the illustrations are not errors but have been misinterpreted and blown out of context. They said there was nothing wrong and the books were approved back in 2012. One illustration in an English-language text shows an MP’s helicopter landing in a school field as learners and teachers cheer. It’s a Grade 4 book approved in 2012. Read: 'Errors' in books taken out of context, publishers say Critics say the illustrations encourage learners to idolise wealthy, if not corrupt politicians with choppers, fleets of cars and cheering supporters. The webpage in a guide says, “Teachers and learners are cheering. I noticed a helicopter. It was flying low. It was flying simply above the timber. ‘Our chief! Our chief!’ we shouted. It was our Member of Parliament. He travels in an airplane. It belongs to him. The helicopter landed in our faculty playground. Three large automobiles arrived in our compound. They too belonged to him. He got out and greeted us. His spouse waved at us. She had golden rings in her hand. He advised us if we do properly he’ll give us a deal with. He’ll carry us up the skies. I’ll attempt my greatest.” Other illustrations also raised questions. However, KICD chief executive officer Julius Jwan yesterday said the textbooks in question have been listed in the Orange Book and were considered 99.9 per cent error-free. “Interpretation has been a problem because it’s up to publishers to choose the illustrations. Teachers are helped in interpretation using the teachers guide so it can always be in context with what students are learning,” he said. Read: KICD boss denies some textbooks are below standard Kenya Publishers Association chairman Lawrence Njagi said the textbooks were approved by the curriculum developer and the so-called errors have been misinterpreted and taken out of context. “The KICD’s mandate is to review textbooks to ensure they meet standards ...When mistakes are identified, we correct them before printing,” he said. Njagi said concepts in pre-primary to Grade 3 books are written and illustrated from a child’s point of view. He said experienced teachers write the books to minimise errors before a separate team of teachers reviews manuscripts and points out areas that need correction. The edited work then goes to KICD for vetting and approval. Njagi said KICD then presents detailed reports to publishers, indicating errors or omissions noted during the vetting. Publishers correct the mistakes. More: Book distribution to continue despite multiple errors, says PS Click here for
the latest political news