Migori governor Okoth Obado on Monday reported to his office for the first time after his release on bail. The governor is charged with the murder of Rongo University student Sharon Otieno and her unborn child. He has denied the charges. Wearing a black suit, light blue shirt and striped tie, the governor arrived quietly in a private vehicle. County staff were caught unaware. When word went round, workers thronged Obado's office to welcome him. He addressed them before heading to the boardroom for a Cabinet meeting. “Let us work diligently to spur development," Obado said. The jovial governor thanked county staff for standing with him during his trying moment. Obado said he will focus on development to leave a legacy. More on this: Obado barred from Sharon's home county Homa Bay as condition for bail Also read: [VIDEO] Okoth Obado released on Sh5m cash bail in Sharon's murder See: Celebrations erupt outside court as Obado is released He did not mention the case he is facing before justice Jessie Lessit. This was one of his bail conditions. On Friday, the governor was released on bail after spending 34 days in prison. His two aides and co-accused Michael Oyamo and Caspal Obiero were denied bail. Obado's return was received with a sigh of relief. Workers and Migori residents had complained of lack of direction because of the governor's absence. A week ago, 25 angry MCAs stormed the Education office and took away bursary cheques that had been delayed. County Secretary Christopher Rusana and the County Public Service Board interdicted the Finance chief officer Samuel Omuga. Omuga went to Kisumu Labour Relations Court seeking an order to quash the decision. Obado's critics have been planning an impeachment motion against him. The governor is now staying in a rented house in Migori. He is not allowed to go to his Ragopi home which is 15km from Homa Bay. Obado is barred from going near Homa Bay, which is Sharon's home county. Justice Lessit ordered Obado not to go 20km near Homa Bay. Click here for the latest political news 