Families displaced from Kerio Valley to create space for the Fluorspar Mining Company will be paid Sh1 billion in compensation, CS John Munyes has said. Munyes made the promise on Wednesday when he met 4,320 residents who were displaced four decades ago. They have been demanding compensation. The CS spoke during a public baraza at Kimwarer-Sugutek centre after touring the company groun. He said the families should not be worried because they will be paid once the process is finalised. Flourspar Mining Company collapsed five years ago. Munyes said the government was still negotiating with an investor to revive the company. He said the families will be paid before operations resume. The CS said reviewing details for those to be paid had been delayed by the arrest and prosecution of National Land Commission chairman Muhammad Swazuri in August. “Swazuri was involved in this matter and we were moving on well. But since the NLC is an institution, its work has to go on. We have asked them to conclude the matter in two weeks,” Munyes said. He was with Principal Secretary John Omenge and officials from the ministry. “We shall carry out a thorough public participation exercise before allowing a new investor to come in,” Munyes said. Earlier, the team paid a courtesy call on Elgeyo Marakwet governor Alex Tolgos, who also attended the public baraza. The governor expressed regret over the exit of the company saying it caused destitution through job losses. “There were over 500 local employees who worked in the company. Many others were indirectly employed by the company, like the transporters and the local businessmen,” Tolgos said. Resident Abraham Barsosio asked the national government to work with the county to ensure the compensation is smoothly done. Omenge said the fluorspar company had not handed over everything officially to the ministry as required despite having closed shop. He said the ministry will engage residents on further mining activities. The company is located in Soy South ward. Area MCA Jonah Tanui said there was lack of information and lack of communication between the community and the management of the company. County commissioner Ahmed Omar said security officers have been deployed to guard company equipment. He thanked residents for protecting company infrastructure.