The feud over composition of Parliamentary committees within Nasa deepened yesterday after Ford Kenya said it was joining ANC in seeking arbitration by the Political Parties Disputes Tribunal. It is the first time that differences between Nasa affiliates have escalated to court, despite unending squabbles since last year’s polls. On Thursday, the ODM wing of Nasa supported by Jubilee, bulldozed through the contentious list of committee changes in the House, despite noisy protests from ANC, which had obtained restraining orders from the tribunal. And Senate deputy Minority Whip Petronilla Were is among the latest casualties in the changes, which mainly affected Musalia Mudavadi’s party. Read: Cracks emerge in Kakamega NASA campaign team Were, a nominated senator and former executive director of ANC, will be replaced by Beatrice Kwamboka in the only change affecting the Senate. “I’m also a victim. I was removed yesterday. Let the Nasa summit agree. Nasa is guided by the agreement and there is a dispute resolution mechanism in the coalition,” Were said. In the list approved by the National Assembly on Friday, ANC’s Sakwa Bunyasi of Nambale and Tindi Mwale of Butere were removed from the powerful PAC and PIC, respectively. They were redeployed to the committees on Delegated Legislation and Budget and Appropriation, respectively. Read; Jump NASA ship before it completely sinks ANC accused the Raila Odinga-led ODM of playing big brother in the opposition coalition and making unilateral decisions without regard to its partners. Yesterday, its Parliamentary Group chairman Ayub Savula threatened the party will resist. “We are going to launch an onslaught on Raila. He has sent his people to fight Musalia. This is betrayal of the highest order. We will meet next week to chart the way forward,” he said. Ford Kenya leader Moses Wetang’ula — another disgruntled party in the Nasa outfit — renewed his verbal assault on Raila, accusing him of dictatorship and disrespect to coalition partners. The Bungoma senator, who was unceremoniously axed from the influential Senate Minority leader’s position in almost similar fashion, said he will seek to be included in the ANC case challenging the changes. On Thursday, Political Parties Disputes Tribunal deputy registrar Kyalo Mbobu fixed the hearing for Friday next week. “ODM is behaving like an overfed child who thought it was the end of hunger and set the granary on fire. Removal of Senator Were of ANC as deputy whip is dishonest, distasteful, dictatorial and typical of the ODM fascists. Ford Kenya will be enjoined in the ANC case,” Wetang’ula said. Kalonzo Musyoka’s Wiper equally expressed concerns over the manner in which ODM has been bulldozing its way in the coalition. Wiper’s Robert Mbui of Kathiani, who is the deputy Minority leader in the National Assembly, agreed with the changes but said he was in the dark and only learnt of the proposed changes when they were tabled in the House. On Friday, secretary general Barrack Muluka said ANC is still consulting and will announce a firm way forward. “Just watch in the next few days,” he said on phone. Click here for the latest political news