Nandi senator Samson Cherargei and some MCAs have opposed joining the Lake Region Economic Bloc and conrtributing Sh200 million for a development bank. They want the money to be spent on youth projects instead. “We have asked the county assembly not to approve the millions because we have more pressing needs where the money can be used,” Cherargei said. The senator wants the county to remain in the North Rift Economic Bloc (Noreb) instead of joining other blocs. However, Governor Stephen Sang defended the move to join the LREB, saying it will benefit farmers. “We are in LREB for economic gains and we will remain in Noreb as active members,” he said. Noreb has been dormant for the past three years, forcing three counties to join alternative blocs. Nandi and Trans Nzoia joined LREB while Elgeyo Marakwet joined the semi-arid counties to form another bloc. Uasin Gishu governor Jackson Mandago who is the Noreb chairman defended the decision by the counties to join other blocs, saying they were free to work with others. Eight governors have agreed to meet and revive Noreb, appointing former Nandi deputy governor Dominic Biwott as the CEO. Bloc rivalry Other governors expected to attend the meeting include Patrick Khaemba (Trans Nzoia), Josphat Nanok (Turkana), Alex Tolgos (Elgeyo Marakwet), John Lonyangapuo (West Pokot) and Stanley Kiptis (Baringo). Nanok, Khaemba and Mandago met in Eldoret last week over the matter. The governors will use the meeting to pursue common investments, including ways to help maize farmers. Biwott confirmed the governors would meet on Friday to discuss the way forward. He said new measures to revive Noreb will be implemented quickly to initiate joint projects in the region. Mandago said Trans Nzoia and Uasin Gishu are already in talks with the Qatar government to produce animal feeds for farmers. “As regional counties, our residents have common problems and that is why we must pull together as a bloc. We need to diversifiy and minimise losses in maize farming,” he said. Fourteen counties have signed up to LREB, eight of which have forwarded the bills to their county assemblies awaiting approval. The counties in the bloc are: Bomet, Bungoma, Busia, Homa Bay, Kakamega, Kericho, Kisii, Kisumu, Migori, Nandi, Nyamira, Siaya, Trans Nzoia and Vihiga. Only Kakamega has ratified the LREB Bill and paid the Sh200 million. Kisumu and Homa Bay counties have paid Sh100 million and Sh50 million respectively. The passage of the bill at the county assemblies would legalise the economic bloc ensuring partnership in tourism, agriculture, education and finance. At least six county assemblies should ratify the agreement to anchor it into in law. Last week, President Uhuru Kenyatta opened the inaugural LREB investment conference in Bomet town, where he supported the formation of regional blocs. He said the national government regional development authorities will be streamlined to fit the new economic dynamics while supporting regional blocs.