Chief Justice David Maraga on Tuesday said judiciaries in the East African Community member
states must do more to ensure the integration process is smooth and successful. Maraga said the about 170 million population in
the EAC means there is ready market for goods manufactured locally and a great
potential for economic prosperity. “Imagine if we get together and the goods we
manufacture in East Africa are sold within the East African countries. You can
see the economic potential that we hold as a region,” Maraga said. He spoke during the East African Magistrates and
Judges Association annual conference at Pride Inn Paradise Beach Hotel
in Mombasa on Tuesday. “Indeed, there is need for economic, political, and social institutions to facilitate the integration of people and ensure that the kind of movement, integration and interaction that we are witnessing is translated into growth and prosperity,” the Chief Justice said. President Uhuru Kenyatta said it is only through regional
integration that people across the EAC can maximise their economic potential. In a speech, read on his behalf by Attorney General
Paul Kihara, Uhuru said regional peace and security is promoted more by the
free mingling of people from different cultural backgrounds across the
countries’ boundaries. In May, the AG indicated is pushing to become the permanent seat of the East Africa Court of Justice, which holds its sittings in Arusha, Tanzania. Kihara said this was part of the integration process "for the mutual benefit of all citizens and the development of the region". Kenya has two judges at the court — Justice Aaron Ringera and Justice Charles Nyachae, who was sworn in this year, taking over from Justice Isaac Lenaola. Rather than importing goods from foreign countries,
Maraga urged the EAC member states to promote each other by buying goods from
local manufacturers. He said Judiciaries within the EAC member states
need to work towards ensuring Agenda 2063 of the African continent, whose emphasis
is on economic development, is achieved. “It is our duty as the judiciaries of East Africa
to ensure our service delivery to our individual countries and to the
affairs of the community is expeditious and effective,” said Maraga. He said the foundation for integration was laid in 2000, when EAC leaders osaw the need and opportunity of once more bringing the peoples of East Africa together. “The main objective of the Treaty, as captured in Article 5 thereof, is to develop policies and programmes that can promote cooperation and integration in political, economic, social, and cultural fields among the partner states. This call for cooperation extends to cooperation in judicial affairs,” Maraga said. He said disputes arising from the economic activities
in EAC should be solved in the shortest time possible. The CJ  noted that all the member states face the same
challenges, including case backlog, harnessing of technology, challenges of the
rule of law, ineffectiveness, impunity and corruption, among others. “We need to see ourselves as brothers and sisters
in this community. We need to assist each other". He said this can be done if the Judiciaries do their
work expeditiously and effectively. The CJ urged the Judiciaries in the EAC to embrace
ICT, saying it will help reduce or even eliminate corruption in the Judiciary. Maraga said though expensive, ICT eliminates
hand-written judgments, which are tedious and time-consuming and ensure faster
delivery of justice. “With the ICT, which we continue to employ
gradually, we will even be recording witness statements and later use that recorded
statement later,” said Maraga. He said with proper implementation of ICT in the
Judiciary, no cash will exchange hands in the corridors of justice which will “All payments and deposits will be made to the court’s account,” Maraga said. Rwanda’s Judiciary is miles ahead of Kenya in
terms of ICT and Kenya seeks to emulate the East African nation. “We are discussing on ways  we can help each
other so that we can better serve our people,” said Maraga. Already, the Commercial Division of the Court in
Nairobi has already taken to e-filing of cases. He said other courts in other parts of the country
will also soon start filing court records electronically.   