Speaking about Uhuru, the contributor noted that for
somebody who was “cleaned up by Moi and planted in Parliament as he interned
for the top seat”, President Kenyatta has no clue how to deal with a
streets-smart hustler, who sold roasted maize by the roadside, rising through
the ranks to take down the most powerful Kalenjin figure head since Koitalel arap
Samoei. The contributor then went on to caution: “Make no mistake.
William Ruto is no spent force.” He said people who grew up in deprived
conditions have enough in the tank to run “celeriac babies out of the town.” These were salient observations made long before the 2017
election and at the time when there was public discussion as to the future of
Ruto, following the 2017 election. Speaking a year later, and one year before the 2017
elections, then Bomet Governor Isaac Rutto said Ruto cannot be Kenya’s
President because of “his trait,” adding the DP overlooks other players in
politics because of his “know-it-all” attitude. Ruto described the DP as a
dictator, who is using his position to amass wealth. Rutto went on to face the music for his utterances in the
hands of vifaranga vya computer and is today still leaking his wounds somewhere
in Kenya but his observations and those of William O cannot be dismissed. In fact, they’re more relevant and poignant today as they
were two-three years ago. So, will these predictions come to pass now that
we’re past the polls and right in the middle of the 2022 succession game? Just as William O cautioned in 2015  not to discount Ruto as a spent force, so too,
is that caution worth repeating inow, as the powers that be continue to scheme
2022, while the masses haplessly watch with more than half the country hoping
and praying electoral theft, violence and deaths will not be repeated in the
next polls. However, in order for that to be the case, several things
must happen, a few noted here for time and space considerations: First, Uhuru must be his own man and, more importantly, he
must immerse himself more than he has to take charge and shrewdly devise and
follow a strategy to ensure he leaves a legacy not exactly, something closer to
Kibaki except with more points on the board. Second, Uhuru and Raila must be on their toes and vigilant
at all hours — day and night — to ensure the Building Bridges objectives are
met. 
Keeping in mind one need not be a genius to know if they were in Ruto’s shoes,
their sole and primary objective would be to make sure the handshake and
therefore the Building Bridges objectives don’t succeed or are thwarted every
step of the way. Efforts to that effect are, in fact, underway. Third, Uhuru and Raila must now rally their bases to
support a referendum that ensures a smooth transition of power in 2022 in a
less acrimonious and more peaceful manner, uniting a vast majority of those
behind each of the two families that have always been at the center of the
country’s politics for good or worse. Once that happens, the rest of what’s necessary will
follow as a matter of necessity and were that to be the case, it’s bye bye from
the political scene to Deputy President Ruto. You ran a good game but in the
end, Kenya ina wenyewe and if they say no, you ain’t seeing the inside of State
House as president, take their word and if in doubt, ask Raila. It’s only with their blessing one becomes President in
Kenya and who that is isn’t you.  Samuel Omwenga is
a legal analyst and political commentator in the United States