2016 Chicago Marathon champion Abel Kirui, will lead seven Kenyans to the 2018 edition of the event scheduled for tomorrow. Kirui, will be joined by among others Dickson Chumba, Geoffrey Kirui, Stephen Sambu, Paul Lonyangata, Bedan Karoki and Augustine Choge. Speaking in Kapsabet as he prepared to leave for the ‘windy city’ Kirui was upbeat that they would push for a 1-2-3 finish for Kenya. He failed to defend his title during the 2017 competition, finishing second to American Galen Rupp. “I have trained well in Kaptagat Nike training camp under Patrick Sang and hope to perform well although I understand there are several other tough marathoners, ” Kirui said. Sang is the coach and tactician behind the success of world marathon record holder Eliud Kipchoge. Kirui has a personal best 2.05.04 and hopes to improve it at the Chicago course. “I want to leave everything to God so that He gives me the strength and spirit to make a comfortable run in Chicago because I’m used to it, having participated severally,” Kirui asserted. He was, however, cautious saying that the event will be competitive with in addition to the Kenyans, the likes of multiple world and Olympic champion Mo Farah and Ethiopian duo of Mosinet Geremew and Birhanu Legese, who have very competitive personal bests . Choge, the 2006 Commonwealth 5000m gold medalist, will be making his debut at the American race. Choge, 31, hails from Kipsigak in the outskirts of Kapsabet town, an area known to have produced several former and the current international stars among them the legendary Henry Rono, former Olympic champion Wilfred Bungei, former world 800m champion Janeth Jepkosgei among many others. Kirui, while welcoming the entry of Choge into marathon said the athlete has a good future, insisting that discipline is the key to success. “You know I am an officer at the national Police Service where discipline is paramount. My advice to upcoming runners is to train smart and be disciplined,” Kirui noted. Kirui is a Superintendent of Police based in Mombasa.