The December travel season is fast approaching, and there is still time to achieve your 2018 holiday goals. For those who have their eyes set on international travel, then Dubai is the city to head to. The emirate continues to be a popular destination of choice to people from global markets, with the first half of 2018 registering a record 8.10 million international overnight tourists, which is a steady rise from the same period last year. Whether you will be visiting Dubai as a tourist or a business person looking for some leisure, here are some activities for you to try out:  Screen X: a 270-degree Cinema at Dubai Mall If the best movie experience for you is one that makes you feel like you are part of what you are watching, then you have probably visited the 4DX theatre at Anga Imax or been to the 7D cinema in TRM. You have had the thrill of feeling water sprayed on you, felt a gush of wind from your seat and felt bubbles bursting on your skin. Now imagine being immersed in that world not just on a wall-to-wall screen, but in a 270-degree panoramic view! Known as ScreenX, the multi-projection system will be available to visitors in the Dubai Mall and will provide cinema-goers with the thrill of being truly immersed in films projected on 3 theatre walls.  Enjoy Kenyan food away from home. Dubai always finds a way to make you feel at home while away from home. If culinary tourism is not something you like to venture into and are always worried about eating foreign foods and delicacies, then you need to visit certain corners of the city to get your Kenyan food fix. A walk along the busy streets of Deira provides you with the option of several restaurants that cater to the tastes of African visitors. Among the most popular is the literally named African Restaurant at Pacific Hotel, where most African cuisines are served. The restaurant serves popular East African dishes, such as matoke, ugali, millet, cassavas, among others. Another option is the Africana Home Restaurant in Al Quoz — or, if you fancy somewhere more up market, then Tribes Restaurant and Kiza are where you will want to dine.  VR Park in the Dubai Mall. Dubai Mall is the world’s largest and most-visited retail and entertainment destination. Welcoming over 80 million visitors annually, it is undoubtedly more than just a retail experience. The mall’s newest attraction, the VR Park, is a gamer’s haven, offering an escape from reality to an imaginary nirvana. Offering games for both adults and children, the gaming park is an experience you and your family will not want to miss. Propel down the side of the Burj Khalifa in the Burj Drop, shoot zombies in a Walking Dead experience, or have your children play Geminose, a VR carousel where beautiful and playful creatures join them to explore a mystical world filled with dance and music.  Dubai Frame Dubai is home to some of the most spectacular buildings in the world, and Dubai Frame adds to the list, as the world’s largest picture frame. The frame stands as a slender hollow rectangle visible from miles around. The frame is a futuristic museum that has become a popular backdrop for selfies and images of the city. The museum uses technology to allow visitors to experience Dubai’s past, present and future in an innovative way.  Dubai Aquarium and Underwater Zoo Dubai is home to one of the largest suspended aquariums in the world. The 10 million litre aquarium harbours more than 33,000 aquatic animals from over 200 species, including sharks and rays. Visitors, especially children, are educated on marine life and sustainability measures. Also available in the underwater zoo are more interactive experiences like glass-bottom boat rides across the tank, a cage snorkeling experience or, for the more adventure-oriented, a shark dive package. 