Technology and actuarial skills will be key drivers of insurance penetration moving forward, PriceWaterhouseCoopers' said in its insurance survey. The report released on Thursday shows insurance firms cited a shortage of actuaries and tech savvy labour despite increased uptake of digital innovation in the industry. It added that millennials are now reshaping the insurance industry both as employees and consumers due to their attitudes and preferences. According to the report, increased use of technology has brought about new customers and more tailored products requiring insurers to use powerful tools to understand and improve customer needs and expectations through data mining capabilities and artificial intelligence. “It is expensive and not always easy for insurers to go it alone,” part of PwC report stated. Insurance distribution has over years relied on insurance sales and brokers, with the Association of Kenya Insurers citing their deep expertise and knowledge of insurance products and how to sell them. The industry had 216 licensed brokers’ in 2017. It also marked a 18.3 per cent increase in the number of agents to stand at 8,698 compared to 7,354 agents in 2016, according to Insurance Regulatory Authority data. Bima Intermediaries Association of Kenya Chairman Washington Ndegea said the intermediaries have been key drivers for the penetration in the country and it will be hard to phase them out. “Insurance is all about explaining the products and services. This is the reason why the industry has been rigid and taken time to adapt to technology. Majority of the employees are also aged,” he said. Long-term insurance leader for PwC Africa Victor Muguto said underwriters need to invest more in training their workforce on adaptation of technology to attract and retain talent. “The insurance industry will be in a better position to sell insurance to the millenials, hire and retain them in the workplace even amidst the disruption imminent with changing technologies,” Muguto said. The report further showed that introduction of the new accounting regulations; International Financial Reporting Standard (IFRS 17) is expected to add more pressure to the insurance companies. IFRS 17 was issued by International Accounting Standards Board in May 2017 to replace IFRS 4 and is to be implemented by January 1, 2021. The insurance industry has been resilient to record a 6.3 per cent growth of total gross written premium to Sh209.70 billion in 2017 from Sh196.6 billion in 2016. The industry net profit grew by a similar margin to Sh13.64 billion from Sh12.83 billion over the same period.