The National Youth Service after suppliers of food and other items withdrew services over non-payment. Sources said the Naivasha and Gilgil campuses could be closed as early as next week if the situation does not change. The suppliers said they have not been paid for the last three years. The two campuses have 23,000 recruits and staff. The traders said they have unsuccessfully sought payment for goods legally supplied to NYS since 2014. Addressing reporters in Naivasha, spokesperson Nelly Mureithi said they were given cheques which bouncing after Kenya Commercial bank withheld the cash. Mureithi who was with tens of suppliers said NYS director general Matilda Sakwa last month promised to pay them in 48 hours. “Our patience has run out although we’re still willing to supply NYS. We’ve withdrawn services because we’re broke. We have no otherwise,” Mureithi said. She said they had been vetted and cleared to supply the agency. Read: Food, water crisis hits NYS Gilgil school James Kabango said they were unable to service bank loans because of the delayed payments. Kabango asked President Uhuru Kenyatta to intervene. He cited the case of maize farmers where the President directed that they be paid their debts. “Auctioneers have started attaching our assets due to non-payment of loans. Our families are undergoing untold suffering,” Kabango said. “We don’t understand why the government has declined to pay yet we are genuine suppliers,” John Wanyoike said. Sources at NYS admitted there was a crisis with stock running out. “The issue of payment is being handled at the headquarters and we hope it will be resolved. Otherwise we shall be forced to send the recruits home,” a source said. NYS has been in the limelight over corruption with 48 suspects having been charged with differents counts of graft. Former PS Lillian Omolo, direcytor general Richard Ndubai are among those who were charged. They were released on a bond of Sh5 million each. Others are the Ngirita family including mother Lucy Wambui, daughters Ann Wanjiku Wambere Ngirita and Phyllis Ngirita, Mr Jeremiah Gichini Ngirita and his wife Catherine Wanjiku Mwai. Also See: NYS SCANDAL: It’s not corruption, it’s planned looting – Mudavadi Click here for the latest political news