Is Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko (pictured) making roadside declarations that lack substance? Yesterday, the good governor directed all retail shops to sell a 2kg maize flour at the recommended Sh75 and threatened to take action against those who will not comply. The directive adds to the long list of declarations whose implementation remains a wait-and-see affair. Sonko first ordered all supermarkets to issue packing bags at no cost to their customers. Barely two months ago, the county boss announced that all residents would access public toilets within the CBD for free — all these are yet to be enforced. Did Nasa co-principals Kalonzo Musyoka, Moses Wetang’ula and Musalia Mudavadi lie to Kenyans that they were not informed of the handshake between their leader Raila Odinga and President Uhuru Kenyatta? Well, Raila on Monday said he had engaged his colleagues prior to the handshake and that they were fully aware. “Kalonzo’s phone was switched off on the day of the handshake between Uhuru and I. They were aware of the handshake,” Raila said. The question is, who is telling the truth between Raila and his co-principals? Is Kenya Ports Authority managing director Daniel Manduku being groomed to run for Kisii governor after the exit of current county boss James Ongwae? Well, it is rumoured that a section of leaders in the county have been hatching plans to help Manduku, the son of former Nyabari Masaba MP Hezron Manduku, clinch the top seat. Some MPs seem to have been very occupied at the grassroots during the one-month recess that they even ended up forgetting basic House rules. Yesterday, National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi was surprised when an MP unprocedurally walked across the floor of the House to grasp a bottle of drinking water. “What is wrong with this honourable member? I thought the recess was so short for one to forget some rules of this House,” Muturi said. Well, MPs and their personal assistants have often undergone numerous training sessions on House procedures, but it seems hard for some lawmakers to adhere to the rules. It seems there is a serious cash crunch in Parliament that has prompted some members to complain about their allowances. Some members of a parliamentary committee were overheard by Corridors complaining that they were told to wait for their sitting allowances to be disbursed at a later date since “there was no money”. Click here for the latest political news