President Uhuru Kenyatta is expected to sign the Kenya Prisons Enterprise Corporation Order, 2018, setting the stage for penitentiaries to unlock their revenue potential. State House said on Tuesday that the Executive order will establish the Kenya Prisons Enterprise Corporation - a State body mandated to expand the scope of the prisons work programs. The ultimately goal will be to turn the correctional institutions into a reformative and financially self-sustaining entity. The new corporation will also contribute to the realisation of President Kenyatta’s Big 4 Agenda, particularly food security, affordable housing, and manufacturing. In this regard, it will be mandated to organise and manage the assets of the Prisons Department, including 86 prison farms covering 18,225.9 acres of land. The production and sale processes under the current Prisons Department’s enterprise directorate are managed by the Kenya Prison Farms Fund and the Kenya Prison Enterprise Fund. Following the enactment of the Order, the two funds will be merged to ensure the new Corporation operates under a typical business model purposely to spur economic growth in the Prisons Department. The enactment of this Order will be followed by the appointment of the Corporation Board of Management and the recruitment of the Chief Executive Officer and the Secretariat. The corporation is viewed to eliminate bureaucracy and establish a culture of professional training and certification for the staff and inmates. It is also envisioned to foster ease of entry into partnership with the private sector on different spheres, State House communications said. "It will also act as a vehicle for strategic investment by government and ensure prisoners are rewarded through better pay for their labour." The Corporation, which will operate as a State Corporation under the State Corporation Act Cap 446 Laws of Kenya, will be wholly owned by the government. It shall be mainstreamed by the Prison Act Cap 90, Borstal Institution Act Cap 92 and Persons Deprived of Liberty Act of 2014. Click here for the latest political news This story has been updated 