A little-known NGO has poked holes on the ongoing investigations into the murder of Monica Kimani on the night of September 20. In an affidavit filed at the High Court on Friday, Empowering Africa Through Media accuses the prosecution of laxity and failing to record a statement from the prime suspect Joseph Irungu, 25 days after his arrest. It says those who were with TV journalist Jacque Maribe (the second accused) on the night Monica was murdered have also never been summoned to give their statements. They include Nairobi governor Mike Sonko. Irungu and Maribe have been charged with the murder. They have denied any wrongdoing. "The Director of Criminal Investigations is yet to summon and record statements from the people that the second accused (Jacque Maribe) was in the company of on the night of the murder including governor Mike Mbuvi Sonko who was with her and others at an entertainment joint in Nairobi," Murigu claims. Sonko posted pictures posing with Maribe after an interview on Citizen TV the same night. Read: Maribe throws fiance Jowie under bus as she recants statement, gives new account Murigu further wonders why the prosecution has not acquired CCTV footage from two entertainment joints where Maribe was at the night of the murder. "Since the prosecution cites a complicated investigation as a reason for delay then why have they not dispensed the simple task like summoning and recording statements from the willing persons that were in the company of the 2nd accused person on the night of the murder," reads part of the affidavit received by the High Court and the DPP. Murigu says if the obvious cannot be done it is clear that the complicated will not be done. On Friday, a GSU officer was arrested in relation to the same murder. The Recce Squad officer told police that Joseph Irungu went to the slain woman’s house. Jennings Orlando said he did not accompany Irungu, aka Jowie, to Monica's house. Police are contemplating using him as a state witness. Orlando had initially denied any knowledge of the incident but changed his position at the weekend. Read: Recce squad officer arrested over Monica Kimani murder links Also Read: Jacque Maribe, Jowie plead not guilty to Monica Kimani murder Click here for the latest political news