Nyanza regional coordinator Moffat Kangi yesterday warned students and teachers against cheating in exams. He urged KCSE and KCPE candidates to prepare well and avoid malpractice, cautioning that those found culpable will be arrested and prosecuted. He wished all candidates the best of luck and reminded them that only their hard work and determination will pay off. Kangi spoke at his Kisumu office after meeting top regional security officers to discuss measures to ensure candidates sit their exams in a peaceful environment and uphold integrity. He assured parents, teachers and learners that security had been stepped up in all examination centres and test materials stored safely. Nyanza has 6,404 centres — 1,819 for secondary schools and 4,585 for primary schools. In each secondary school centre, two police officers have been deployed. “We have high surveillance in place with 3,638 police officers deployed,” Kangi said. Regional education coordinator George Chepkawai said supervisors and invigilators will have badges to prevent strangers from accessing the centres. He warned that “opening wrong exam papers” will not be tolerated. Kangi urged the security bosses to release vehicles to help transport exam papers. “We have a duty to devote all government resources for the success of exams,” he said. About 1.7 million candidates will sit the KCSE and KCPE exams countrywide — 1,060,703 in primary schools and 664, 585 in secondary schools. In Nyanza, 110,605 candidates are to sit the KCSE exam and 159,959 the KCPE exam. The KCSE exam is underway. It began on Monday with language practicals. Theory papers start on November 5 and end on November 29. The KCPE exam will start on October 30, with pupils rehearsing a day earlier. Kangi urged education sector players to be vigilant. He said candidates had enough time to prepare and should have no reason to fear. “We want our candidates to be law-abiding citizens. Let nobody lure you into cheating. Report individuals who try to engage you in unlawful acts,” he told the officers. Kangi directed education officials, county commissioners and deputy county commissioners to be on the lookout to avert irregularities. Any officer involved in malpractice will be held to account, he said. He said teachers must adhere to Kenya National Exam Council regulations so their school results are not cancelled. Kangi at the same time he wished the candidates well in exams reminding them that hard work and determination pays. He said they will partner with county government to ensure the tests run smoothly.