Gor Mahia FC midfielder Humphrey Mieno who scored on his last visit to England has maintained that freezing weather in the United Kingdom (UK) wont stop them from putting on a brave performance against Everton FC. In an interview today after an early morning training session, Mieno explained that even though the conditions and environment is not what most of his teammates are used to, it will not be an excuse for a poor performance. They will have to pull their weight.  Exhibition match  “The weather is different and very cold but that will not deter us from playing our game and working hard to get a positive result. “Despite the low temperatures, the game remains the same. We have a few days before the game to adapt and get used to the weather before the game, which will help us a lot,” Mieno offered. He is not a stranger to the excruciatingly low temperatures brought about by the British winter as this will be the second time he plays a match on English soil. Mieno, together with left-back Wesley Onguso, were a part of the SportPesa All Stars team which traveled to Hull in the UK last year for an exhibition match against then EPL side Hull before they were later demoted to the second tier Championship at the end of the 2016/17 season where the Tigers have been since. The Kenyan international made a mark when he got on to the score sheet with a cracking 25-yard effort into the bottom right corner of the hosts goal. “It was a great experience then and this year brings with it an even greater one. I'm glad we have many young players in the squad and most of my teammates haven’t been to the UK before, so we have to make the most of it,” Mieno stressed. “I was fortunate to get a goal the last time but it’s not about individual honours for me. I will be satisfied with a good team performance and a win would make this historic match even sweeter,” he added. The match will be played next Tuesday, November 6 at the iconic Goodison Park at 7pm (10GMT+). Earlier this year, Hull eclipsed Gor 3-4 on post-match penalties when the sides met in Nairobi in May following a barren draw in regulation time at a game that saw the 60,000-seater Moi International Sports Stadium, Kasarani packed beyond capacity. Last year, the SPL winners lost 1-2 to Everton in Dar in an encounter where returning former England captain, Wayne Rooney opened the scoring with another scorcher on his first appearance for the Blues after ending a 12-year career with English titans, Manchester United FC.