Meru MCAs want governor Kiraitu Murungi to account for funds channeled to the failing Meru Microfinance Corporation or else wind it down. Tabling a report before the assembly on Tuesday, the Public Accounts Committee said the institution could have lost millions of shillings since no payments have been made by the borrowers. The panel is chaired by Kimathi Ithibua. The audit report for 2016-2017 indicates over-payment of Sh850,000 to the board members. MCAs said it is the Constitution that empowers the SRC to set remuneration and benefits to all state officers innational and county governments. MCAs Mwirigi Karinga (Abogeta East) Martin Makasi (Nkuene), Murega Julius (Municipality) said the microfinance corporation was not effectively discharging its mandate. The MCAs were angered by the expenditures and allowances pocketed by the board members. “This report shows the microfinance has been receiving funds every year, it has become a cash cow. We ask why should it continue to exist if it does not have money to give to deserving customers. I will not support any more money for it,” Makasi said. “The aim of this corporation was to assist small businesses but it can no longer serve its purpose. We are giving it one year to recover from its liabilities, failing which we should shut it down. Those given loans should refund in due time,” Murega said. According to the report, the bank had managed to collect only Sh4.1 million against an outstanding balance of Sh47 million, revealing inability to recover loans. Karinga said he will table a motion demanding that microfinance to be scrapped over mismanagement. “Governor Kiraitu, you are the one who asked us to allocate money to this corporation but now we have seen it is not helping Meru residents in any way. If hey were given a budget of Sh200 million for five years and they have only managed to collect Sh70 million, where is the other money? It should be shut. If not I will table a motion to have it shut down,” Mwirigi said. The report also reveals the demand notices issued to borrowers had already expired, putting the bank’s lending capacity in peril. Ithibua said the institution’s board chairperson was paid Sh30,000 while other board members earned Sh20,000 as allowances, which violated SRC guidelines. The SRC recommends Sh15,000 for the chairperson and Sh10,000 for other board members. Also unclear was the expenditure of Sh4,821,778 for stationary, printing and office supplies. The MCAs said the expenditures were not backed by documentary evidence as they had not been provided. The Meru Microfinance Bank was established by former Governor Peter Munya in 2015. Munya was appointed the Cabinet secretary for Trade, Industrialisation and Cooperatives after losing to Kiraitu Murungi. He started the microfinance institutution to provide funds to youth, women and traders groups. Three groups from each of the 45 wards were receiving funds for income-generating activities . Munya called it a life-changing initiative as it lent at low interest rates compared to commercial banks. The report showed overpayment of Sh84,150 as house allowances to four employees, violating SRC guidelines. It recommended steps be taken to recover the money. Speaker Joseph Kaberia chaired the session.   