Slain Rongo University student Sharon Otieno will be buried in Homa Bay today after her estranged husband allegedly failed to contact the family. The family gave Bernard Owuor from Migori county 44 days to bury her, but he did not show up. Sharon’s body was removed from MED 25 International mortuary in Mbita and ferried to her grandfather’s home in Magare village, Homa Bay. Mourners thronged the home waiting to view the body which arrived at 3.50pm yesterday. Luo traditions dictate that a married woman be buried at her husband’s home, irrespective of where one dies. In the case of Sharon, the body would have been buried at Owuor’s home. Read: Sharon's burial set for October 19 as family reiterates call for justice More: Sharon’s baby to be buried at her grandfather’s home Sharon’s family yesterday said they decided to bury her at her grandfather Samuel Odege’s home in Magare because Owuor “failed to communicate”. Sharon’s step paternal grandfather John Olweya and burial committee chairman Elijah Opiyo said Owour had not paid dowry to make the marriage official. Olweya said Sharon will be buried in Odege’s homestead because a grandfather is considered an equivalent of a granddaughter’s husband. He said they waited long enough for Sharon’s husband to appear, but he did not. Olweya said they stopped waiting for Owuor on Wednesday and decided to prepare the grave site. “We’re burying Sharon here because her husband failed to communicate to us. We assume she had not been married,” Olweya told journalists yesterday. Sharon’s unborn baby was also buried in the same homestead. More than 2,000 mourners are expected at Sharon’s funeral. Sharon’s body was found in Owade area near Wire Forest in Oyugis on September 4. This was a day after she was abducted. Migori Governor Okoth Obado, and his personal assistants Michael Oyamo and Caspal Obiero have been detained over Sharon’s death. Meanwhile, police in Migori are investigating the death of another Rongo University student. Kelvin Ngui, a fourth year student, disappeared on September 9. He was pursuing a degree in Tourism and Hospitality. His decomposing body was found near River Kuja. Details: Sharon died from excessive bleeding, may have been raped – autopsy Click here for
the latest political news