National women’s football team coach David Ouma has expressed confidence even as the team is pressed for training time ahead of next month’s Africa Women Cup of Nations in Ghana. The biannual event is scheduled for between November 17 and December 1. A provisional squad of 31 players were called to camp but only 16 players attended the first training sessions at the Utalii grounds last evening. Ouma, who took the team to their maiden appearance at the annual event in Cameroon in 2016 said time can never be enough but will make use of the available time. “As you can see, we only have 16 players in training but by later evening, it will be a full house. Majority of the players are from the Western part of the country where some took part in the Women’s Premier League matches over the weekend and therefore it is was only fair that we give them time to rest and travel,” said Ouma. “Compared to 2016, where most of the players were naive — I believe this time we have come of age. We have players who have played in Sweden, United States of America and Israel and we go into this event with exposure and experience compared to our first appearance.” Ouma noted that logistics are underway to have Esse Akida (Isreal ) and Marjolene Nekesa (USA) join the team. Team captain Wendy Achieng said they will be out to give a good account of themselves. Kenya failed to record a win in Cameroon but Achieng noted they will be out to better their performance. “We are in a tricky pool that have holders Nigeria, South Africa and Zambia, but the good thing about it is that we have played them before and we know what to expect from them. But for us it will to take one match at time and see what happens from there. But if we can surpass our performance from the last tournament, then it will be good,” said Achieng, who plays for Spedag in the Premier League. Diminutive striker Mwanahalima Adam was optimistic of good results saying they have what it takes to perform well. “We have a good squad which is aware of what is expected of them and we would love to be among the three nations to represent Africa at the World Cup. We will put our best foot forward and hope results will come out way,” she said.  Provisional Squad Goalkeepers: Pauline Atieno (Makolanders), Maureen Shimuli (Wadadia), Annette Kundu (Eldoret Falcons), Monica Karambu (Thika Queens), Diana Tembesi (Wiyeta Girls) Defenders: Lilian Adera (Vihiga Queens), Wendy Achieng (Spedag), Dorcas Shikobe (Oserian), Phelistus Kadari (Vihiga Queens), Wincate Kaari (Thika Queens), Elizabeth Ambogo (Spedag), Maureen Khakasa (Trans Nzoia Falcons), Juliet Auma (Thika Queens), Vivian Nasaka (Vihiga Queens) Midfielders: Jentrix Shikangwa (Wiyeta Girls), Mary Kinuthia (Gaspo Youth), Sheril Angachi (Gaspo Youth), Ruth Ingosi (Eldoret Falcons), Corazone Aquino (Vihiga Queens), Elizabeth Wambui (Gaspo Youth), Martha Amunyolete (Trans Nzoia Falcons), Christine Nafula (Gaspo Youth), Cynthia Shilwatso (Vihiga Queens), Mercy Achieng (Thika Queens), Cheris Avilia (Spedag) Forwards: Neddy Atieno (Makolanders), Esse Akida (Ramat Hasharon), Mwanahalima Adam (Thika Queens), Janet Bundi (Eldoret Falcons), Terry Engesha (Vihiga Queens), Phoebe Oketch (Vihiga Queens), Marjolene Nekesa (USA)