Former national cricket team skipper Maurcie Odumbe put his tribulation with the national team to lead Stray Lions to eight wickets win over hosts Ruaraka Sports Club over the weekend. Odumbe, who was unceremoniously tossed out of the national team last month, scored 22 runs and later on picked up two wickets as the defending champions registered their sixth win of the season. Odumbe’s knock of 22 from 23 balls was useful in leading the visitors to 205 for 9. He then bagged 2 for 36 in seven overs as Ruaraka were bowled out for 125 in 27.4 overs. “I am enjoying every moment on the pitch. It’s one thing winning and one thing enjoying and I feel I enjoyed being on the pitch and putting on a good show. We played well. We were stronger in all departments,” Odumbe said. Anand Ranganath (55) and Abhjeet Velma (53) led Stray Lions to the huge total with half tons. The second placed side were impressive throughout their inning with partnerships being produced through. Ranganath put on an opening stand of 60 with Shem Obado before Velma and youngster David Mutua put on 56 for the fourth wicket. The hosts struggled throughout the chase with only Pankaj Bhudia standing out with 38. Nehemiah Odhiambo was the peak of Stray Lions bowlers with 4 for 11. Ngoche and Manoj Chaurasia bagged two wickets each. At Eastleigh High School, hosts Kanbis maintained their hundred percent run with a five wickets win over Nairobi Gymkhana thanks to Rakep Patel’s ton. The former national team skipper scored 88 balls 108 as the hosts chased down 266 in 40.3 overs. Rakep and Nelson Odhiambo who scored 91 from 100 balls put on a third wicket stand of 176 that got the scores to 218 after 33 overs. The two linked up after Amish Amin had bagged two wickets to leave them on 42 after 5.4 overs. The visitors were impressive with the bat with all but one batsman (Raj Savala) failing to get to double digits. Siddarthasinh Vijaysinh (40), Lucasl Oluoch (38) and Abdul Najmi (39) were the top scorers for the Forest Road based side. At Nairobi Club, hosts Kenya Kongonis beat Kanbis B by two wickets in a highly contested Plate Division match. Chasing 210, Kongonis were home with 13 balls to spare and two wickets in hand.