STARRING: Melissa Roxburgh, Josh Dallas, Athena Karkanis, JR Ramirez, Luna Blaise, Parveen Kaur PREMIERE: September 24  An extended family is stuck at a Jamaica airport as it tries to make it back home from New York after a vacation in Jamaica. When the airline offers passengers an incentive to some passengers from the overbooked flight to take a later flight, Michaela Stone, her brother Ben and his son Cal decide to stay. Meanwhile, Michaela’s parents, Ben’s wife and Cal’s twin sister take the scheduled flight. Michaela, Ben and Cal board Montego Air Flight 828. The flight is relatively smooth until the plane experiences heavy turbulence that the pilots don’t see on the radar. After a few moments of heavy turbulence, the plane resumes into a smooth ride. As the pilot seeks permission to land at New York Airport, he is rerouted to a nearby smaller airstrip, where they are met with authorities. After a brief kerfuffle, the passengers are informed that Montego Air Flight 828 has been missing for five and a half years, and they were all presumed dead. The National Security Agency questions all the passengers, hoping to find out where they have been the last five years. But the answer is still the same, the plane was always in the air and never touched down anywhere. The passengers are then reunited with their families. The evidence of the time passed becomes clear to them as they see how much everyone has aged. Cal’s twin sister is now a fully grown 15-year-old, while Cal is still the 10-year-old boy that she left in Jamaica. The Stones’ mother has passed away, and Michaela’s boyfriend is married to her best friend. The passengers are forced to integrate into present society and move on with their lives. That is until they all start to experience paranormal activities, such as hearing voices and seeing visions. A calling that guides them to do things they didn’t think possible. The show maintains a certain level of intrigue that makes the viewer watch the next episode. And although it has been compared to the successful show, Lost, it’s hardly anything similar. The unfolding mystery of a possible extra-terrestrial contact makes this show captivating.  Star Rating: 4/5