Former Nairobi Town Clerk John Gakuo died yesterday at the Mbagathi District Hospital in Nairobi after being rushed there from Nairobi West Prison where he was serving a jail sentence. Prisons boss Isaiah Osugo told the Star on phone that Gakuo was admitted to the hospital on Monday. He did not say what was ailing him. Gakuo, 68, was sentenced to a three-year jail term in May after conviction in the Sh283 million cemetery land scandal. He was jailed alongside former Local Government PS Sammy Kirui, former secretary for legal aff airs in the defunct Nairobi City Council Mary Ng’ethe and former tender committee chairman Alexander Musee. Read:[VIDEO] Ex-Nairobi town clerk John Gakuo is dead They were found guilty of abuse of office and willful failure to comply with procurement laws. Gakuo was a University of Nairobi alumni. He was first elected Nairobi Town Clerk in 2004. The appointment to City Hall came after he was transferred from the Ministry of Health where he was serving in provincial administration for over 20 years. In a previous interview on his leadership as Town Clerk, Gakuo said he was able to deal with garbage collection in the city. For instance, if garbage was found in a place that had been cleared, immediate property owners and businesspersons were held responsible and firmly dealt with. “With time, they toed the line and became our eyes on the ground. I also fi rmly dealt with my offi cers if they were foundculpable,” Gakuo said. Read: This man Gakuo: From celebrated Town Clerk to prison life His reign was largely credited with refurbishing Central Park and Uhuru Park which were initially unmaintained and controlled by street boys. When he took over as the fi rst governor of Nairobi in 2003, Evans Kidero appointed Gakuo to his cabinet as executive for Water, Energy, Environment and Natural Resources. He was sacked after 16 months under unclear circumstances in October 2014. Gakuo challenged his dismissal in court and demanded he be paid a full salary up to the end his five year contract. He said he had committed his salary to various financial institutions and had no other source of income to service loans. Until his incarceration on May 15, Gakuo was one of those suggested for Nairobi deputy governor’s job. Click here for the latest political news