President Uhuru Kenyatta yesterday expressed pride in Kenya’s pioneering roles in science and innovation in Africa. He said 25 per cent of all digital innovation startups in Africa come from and are based in Kenya. The President spoke at the launch of the ASK Show in Nairobi. He urged the private sector to promote support and promote Kenyan technological startups, adding that the government is also implementing policies that support innovations. Uhuru cited e-registration of farmers and expansion of the state-sponsored livestock and crops insurance scheme as some of the policies. The government targets increased fish production to bridge the demand-supply gap estimated to be 314 tonnes annually, he said. It is also putting in place measures that encourage the private sector involvement in post-harvest handling and value addition to maximise revenue in the agriculture sector. In this year’s budget, agriculture has been Sh57 billion. Uhuru said the government is promoting consumption of blended maize flour to encourage production of drought-tolerant cereals such as sorghum and millet. He underscored the importance of research and innovation to improve agriculture. Sh5 billion will be spent on research and Sh4 billion on the fertiliser subsidy programme. The government is also keen to diversify Kenya’s export basket to reduce inefficiencies in the value chain by 50 per cent by 2022. He reiterated his focus on the Big 4 agenda — food security, affordable housing, manufacturing and universal healthcare. “We have committed to ensure that by 2022 our nation will be food-secure,” he said, calling for prudent use of public funds. More than 270 local and 56 international firms and institutions are holding exhibitions to showcase innovations and technologies to harness the potential of agriculture. The trade fair, the biggest highlight of the Agricultural Society of Kenya calendar and the largest in Eastern African, has attracted exhibitors from across the world, including Tanzania, Egypt, Zimbabwe, India, Pakistan, Israel and China. Uhuru toured many stands at the Jamhuri Show Ground, among them the affordable housing stand where public and private firms are showcasing model houses that can be afforded by Kenyans. He also visited the livestock exhibition and auction stand, and the Kenya Defence Forces exhibition. Agriculture CS Mwangi Kiunjuri, Nairobi governor Mike Sonko and ex-VP Kalonzo Musyoka were present. Click here for the latest political news