An audit report on the IEBC’s operations before last year’s elections has revealed a possible loss of millions of taxpayers’ money in suspicious contract deals. Auditor General Edward Ouko in his analysis of the contracts awarded for the supply of goods and services used during the 2017 elections revealed the commission could not satisfactory explain millions awarded to contractors and suppliers, some which were unqualified. The report comes at a time the commission is struggling following the exit of up to four out of the seven commissioners. Ouko questioned the award of a Sh1.1 billion transport contract which the commission claimed it procured at its county offices despite having no procurement officer at the time. Read: Probe 'corrupt' IEBC for cancelling poll equipment tender, says Mudavadi According to IEBC, the opening and evaluation of transportation tenders were done on the same day in all the 47 county offices, a claim the audit team dismissed, stating the county offices had no procurement officers at the time hence no capacity to undertake the exercise. “Most of the contracts were awarded based on predetermined budgetary allocation issued from the headquarters. In the absence of competition and fair award of the contracts, it is not possible to confirm the expenditure of Sh 1,142,635,000 was fully controlled and that the value for money was obtained on transport services,” Ouko said. During the October 16 presidential elections, the report pointed, IEBC procured 42,947 ballot boxes at Sh2,500 instead of Sh 2,250 offered by the supplier resulting into an excess payment of Sh 10,731,750. Ouko further revealed the Sh2,500 per ballot box was arrived at despite the commission buying the same boxes used during the August presidential elections at Sh 1,850 per ballot box. “Indications are that there was an attempt to vary the contract which has resulted in total excess payment of Sh 27,902,101,” stated the report. More on this: IEBC cancels tender for poll equipment, seeks to lease Another supply where the report revealed millions could have been lost due to variation of the contract was the supply of badges used by elections officers and other accredited persons to access various polling and tallying centres across the country. At first, the electoral body awarded the contract of 550,381 badges at a contract sum of Sh9,554,370. This – according to Ouko - was later altered to Sh44,030,480 without explanation, occasioning a possible loss of Sh34,476,110 taxpayers’ money. Click here for the latest political news