Rhamu market in Mandera county was reopened yesterday after it was closed for six years by inter-clan clashes. The market was destroyed following fighting between the Garre and Degodia clans. Trade executive Abdiaziz Maad said the market will increase revenue by Sh4 million a year. “The market that was providing daily bread to families was looted, vandalised and set ablaze by clan warriors in 2013 but we have managed to rebuild it,” he said. The new Sh37 million market will accommodate as many as 450 traders and has a capacity of 165 stalls. “The opening of the market is a milestone in the peace initiatives by the county government in which the two clans have been brought together,” Maad said. Rhamu ward representative Kullow Alio said the market will help unify clans in Mandera North subcounty. “In 2013, locals were killed, property destroyed and many others displaced. People did not appreciate each other but the society has healed and this market will bring people together again,” he said. Alio said Rhamu was a cosmopolitan town and all clans should live peacefully. “The town had been zoned with each clan getting its own section but that thinking has been buried and we have to move forward as Kenyans,” he added. To ensure the ghost of clan clashes is cast out completely, Alio said each clan will get an equal share of resources from the county. “Locals fought over resources but we have a good plan on how we will equally share everything we get and this has helped in building bridges,” he said. However, the MCA said other areas in the county were still experiencing clan clashes and could learn from Rhamu by coexisting peacefully. All splinter markets in the town will be closed and traders accommodated in the main market to foster cohesion. A 20-member committee has been tasked with ensuring no one from the two clans feels short-changed in allocation of stalls at the market. Another committee of 11 people will handle any conflicts arising between traders and buyers at the market.  