Education CS Amina Mohamed has assured candidates in conflict-hit areas in Narok that they will sit their exams in a peaceful environment. On Tuesday, she urged pupils who fled after last month’s ethnic clashes to return to their schools. The government has stepped up security, she said. Amina toured Olposimoru primary and secondary schools to assess candidates’ preparedness. Olposimoru area on the Nakuru-Narok border experienced tension last month after two communities clashed after trading accusations of cattle theft. One person was killed, scores suffered injuries and more than 60 houses were torched. Police are investigating politicians alleged to have incited their communities. Amina called for calm.“I’m informed that two candidates from this primary school have yet to return to school after the clashes. I’ve ordered that they be searched and returned to sit exams. No one should miss a national examination as a result of insecurity,” Amina said. Other leaders present included Narok governor Samuel Tunai, county commissioner George Natembeya, Olpusimoru MCA Kikaet Kuyo and his Olokurto counterpart Samuel ole Karia. Read: Amina to schools: 'Dare you interfere, try to cheat in exams!' Amina condemned ethnicism among young learners, saying a school environment should promote equal opportunity for all regardless of one’s ethnic background. “The government has been spending a lot of money to boost security in this area. The cash would otherwise be spent on building schools and promoting the standards of education in this region. I urge everyone to maintain peace for the sake of development,” she said. The free primary education was launched to enable children to get quality education, despite of their economic backgrounds. Amina said every child has a right to sit the exam. “It’s unacceptable that the young learners are also affected by the on-and-off skirmishes experienced in this area, yet the government has given them a chance to education,” she said. “These children are never involved in fights, yet they are affected when tribal clashes occur. We have to protect them in all ways possible.” Tunai urged Olpusimoru residents to live in harmony to create an environment conducive to development. He said the county will continue building school infrastructure to ensure learners have what it takes to pursue their dreams. “The county will help in building a modern library that will be shared by Olposimoru primary and secondary schools. The library will keep the young learners engaged during the holidays and consequently improve their grades,” he said. The county government has intensified initiatives that will retain girls in school. Tunai promised to support the government’s war on retrogressive cultural practices such as FGM and early marriages. Natembeya said the dusk-to-dawn curfew imposed on the area a month ago will continue until the candidates are through with their exams. He urged candidates not to miss the chance to sit the national examinations. Read: State issues strict rules to curb exam cheating Click here for the latest political
news