Lower minimum entry grade for teacher training institutions will address the shortage of teachers in northern Kenya, the Muslim Education Council has said. The council’s executive director Munawar Khan while addressing an education forum in Wajir on Wednesday said the new changes will ensure the sustainability of teacher training and address teacher shortage in public primary and secondary schools. Munawar contends the new regulations are a blessing in disguise for Muslims, especially in northern Kenya and Coast region, where most public primary and secondary schools are facing an acute shortage of Islamic Religious Education (IRE) and Arabic teachers. The Kenya National Qualifications Authority (KNQA) recently published the new regulations which lowers the entry requirements for diploma and certificate (P1) courses. According to the new rules, students with a C plain or C- in the Kenya Certificate of Secondary Education (KCSE) will now study diploma in education, down from the previous C+. Teacher training colleges offering certificate in education (P1)course will now admit students with a mean grade of D+ from a C plain. This has however not gone down well with the Teachers Services Commission TSC has warned that grade D teachers will not be registered after graduation as the entry grade should be C. The agency, recommended the recruitment of 1200 curriculum assistants to support current teachers and address deteriorating education standards. According to the agency, there is a shortfall of 4,727 teachers both in primary and secondary schools, 3,311 for primary and 1,416 for secondary. He urged muslim leadership and organisations to provide incentives including scholarship or interest-free loans to attract more youth to undertake the training. He urged muslim students to take up the opportunity and enroll in teacher training institutions. The changes by the ministry, expected to be rolled out officially next year seeks to address the dwindling number of students interested in pursuing the profession countrywide. Education Cabinet Secretary Amina Mohamed raised concern over the low number of students applying to join teacher training colleges in the last two years. “We have to address this issue, or else we will not get secondary and primary school teachers in future,” she said. Amina regretted the students’ lack of interest in the profession, yet the government was investing a lot of resources in the sector. The authority’s director-general Dr. Juma Mukhwana stated that the teaching profession is under threat from reforms undertaken in the technical vocation education training (TVET) sector, whereby students aspiring to pursue technical courses are offered education loans and bursaries by the Higher Education Loans Board (HELB). The government also announced that teacher training colleges will from next year phase out P1 certificate courses which will be replaced by diploma for all primary school trainee teachers. According to the Teacher’s Service Commission (TSC), there are 295,000 trained teachers who are yet to be absorbed by the government and private sector.