The question right now is: Can we repay what we have already borrowed? As to whether Kenya has hit its borrowing limit, that's really about our ability to pay back. The concern with the Eurobond is that it's a short-term loan and therefore very expensive. This means that the days ahead might be bleak because repayment gets higher. This year alone we owe about Sh870 billion for different loans, not just the Eurobond. Therefore, taking on another debt next year means we have to pay much more. That's the concern. Repayment is a factor in our revenue collection. I'm yet to see our first quarter collection. But going by what the Treasury indicated, things were not looking very promising because the economy is yet to bounce back. We also do not know what kinds of shocks -- for instance, the eight per cent VAT -- might have on the overall economic landscape. So it's still too early to know whether the increment on VAT and the exercise duty on bank transactions will bring in anything significant. Then the question arises: If collection doesn't look too good, where do we get the money? For the Treasury, the biggest challenge is that the public has very little information about these bonds. How much has been borrowed? Why that amount? What are the loan conditions? Remember the first Eurobond is still shrouded in mystery. Did the proceeds ever arrive? How much was received? How exactly was it spent? These questions deserve answers. Therefore, every time Kenyans hear that the government wants to borrow more, they become jittery. People are not too sure what will happen. Our borrowing and repayment amounts are growing faster than our revenue. When you accumulate more debts than income, it might get to a point when you have to forfeit basic services or you find yourself unable to pay. These are not kind options, particularly when you are unable to concretely identify where we have invested the money we  borrowed. Click here for the latest political news The Country Manager International Budget Partnership Spoke to the Star 