The University of Embu has expressed concern that many of its students are unable to pay fees because of their poor backgrounds. Vice chancellor Daniel Mugendi yesterday said such students face untold difficulties and at times drop out, as they can’t sustain their education. He said they cannot help the students as the university is also in need of funds for infrastructure. They have resorted to an endowment fund to help the most vulnerable. Prof Mugendi said the hard economic times have made it difficult for many parents to support their families. He said they target Sh300 million. A portion will go to the institution’s development projects. Mugendi urged well-wishers and the donor community to help so that poor bright students can complete their education and pursue their dreams. He spoke after flagging off a road race meant to raise funds for the kitty. Students, residents and county officers participated. Embu Health executive Jamleck Muturi was present. On Friday, Deputy President William Ruto will launch the fund and open a new library at the university. He said universities are suffering because the economy is not able to fully support them financially. They have to look for alternative sources of funds to keep their operations running, he said. transformation Of significance is the need to have adequate resources to support their strategic development plans, the vice chancellor said. Two weeks ago, the university celebrated its certification to ISO 27001:2013 for its information security management systems, and recertification to ISO:2015 for quality management system. It also launched its Strategic Plan 2018-28. The institution was founded in 1947 as the Embu Institute of Agriculture. In 1993, it was upgraded to Embu Agricultural Staff Training College. In 2011, it was turned into Embu University College for the University of Nairobi. It was chartered by the government as a full-fledged university on October 7, 2016. Click here for the latest political news