The Kenya Certificate of Primary Education exam got off to a smooth start yesterday, with minimal hitches. The government dispatched Cabinet Secretaries, Principal Secretaries and other senior officials to monitor the administration of the exam. A total of 1,060,787 candidates are sitting the test across 10,075 centres. Education CS Amina Mohamed pronounced Day 1 was successful. No cheating was reported. “The KCPE exam started without a hitch. I have received reports from the Cabinet secretaries and PSs from their stations across the country without major incidents,” Amina said. She said a few students were sitting the exam in hospital “We have three from Kiambu county and we have made arrangements for them,” she said. Read: No leakages, all set for KCPE examination, says CS Amina Meanwhile, the Kenya National Examinations Council yesterday said the exam will be credible. Knec chairman George Magoha said that the exam has not been leaked and called for team efforts to maintain its credibility. “I can give 150 per cent assurance on credibility,” Magoha said in Mombasa where he witnessed the collection of exam materials at Uhuru na Kazi offices. Magoha was with Devolution Chief Administrative Secretary Hussein Dado. He said measures were in place to prevent cheating. In Garissa, Interior CS Fred Matiang’i said there were difficulties in transporting exams in Mandera and Wajir because of heavy rains. The materials were airlifted. He said security along the border with Somalia had been enhanced to ensure there were no al Shabaab attacks. “We don’t anticipate or foresee any challenges but we’re ready to deal with them if they occur,” Matiang’i said. There were a few cases of missing names and sick candidates. Those in Kiambu had been admitted to hospital for various illnesses. Read: No phones, school visits during KCSE and KCPE, teachers warned MATERNITY WARD In Migori, three candidates missed the exam because their names were missing. Another sat the test in hospital. “We’re investigating the matter,” Migori county director of education Luka Kangogo said. Another candidate went into labour during rehearsals on Monday. She sat her exam yesterday in hospital. In Nyandarua, three candidates missed the exam while another will tackle the test today from a maternity ward after she gave birth yesterday. One of the three is in a coma at Kenyatta National Hospital ICU. Nyandarua county director of education Helen Nyang’au said the student was taken to hospital by her parent due to stomach pains. She said the girl was referred to Kenyatta from a hospital in Nyandarua. Doctors at KNH recommended surgery. In Ndaragwa, a 17-year-old girl sat the exam from a maternity ward after delivering a girl on Monday evening. CS Amina said five police helicopters were on standby to ferry exam materials to areas that were inaccessible by road. Also read: Watchman arrested in Kajiado for sneaking in fake exam papers Click here for the latest political news    