The Kenya Forest Service has recovered over Sh50 million from saw millers for trees harvested. Forest Plantations and Enterprise acting deputy chief conservator Zipporah Toroitich yesterday said they had recovered Sh50,526,273.80 as at Thursday noon. The amount is part of the Sh1.2 billion the saw millers owe after harvesting trees. The payments follows a demand letter by the service being dispatched to the millers who had defaulted. On September 6, KFS acting chief conservator Monica Kalenda said some saw millers had not paid after harvesting trees. “It’s a matter of great concern to the KFS board that the service is owed Sh1.2 billion by saw millers. Demand letters have been issued to all the debtors to clear these bills in 14 days commencing today or they will be disqualified from prequalification,” she said. Of more than 800 saw millers prequalified by the agency, 600 had not paid. KFS last week published a detailed list that capturing saw millers with unpaid forest products royalties. The debts, KFS said, have been accruing from the financial year 2012/2013 to date. The outstanding amounts are significant as the forestry sector, contributes about Sh 7 billion to the economy and employs over 50,000 people directly and another 300,000 indirectly. “Please note that those who owe KFS outstanding debts will not be eligible for registration unless the amounts owed are settled in full immediately,” said the public notice, signed by Kalenda. In the public notice issued by the KFS, the saw millers have been slapped with a warning to immediately clear their outstanding debts or risk deregistration. KFS, in collaboration with the ICT Authority, is finalising an e-registration module for all saw millers. The e-registration process is part of a recommendation recently tabled by the fifteen-member Forest Resources Management and Logging Activities, a taskforce appointed by Environment and Forestry Cabinet Secretary, Keriako Tobiko this year. The list confirms that North-Rift based firms such as Phill Ltd owe (Sh 62 million), New Annan (Sh 43.7million) and Elgeyo (Sh 17.2million) saw millers are some of the largest debtors to KFS for harvested forest products. Other leading saw millers on the debt list include Janwill Enterprises owing Sh 21.3 million and Brookside Timber for their allocation in Cheboswa Forest, Kericho County. A sawmiller registered on various categories Ms Bekiko Ltd is also listed as owing more than Sh 6million from various forest plantation blocks in Elgeyo Marakwet. In its report submitted to cabinet secretary Tobiko, the Forest Taskforce chaired by Greenbelt Movement Chairperson Marion Kamau noted that illegal logging of indigenous trees is a major threat to forests and is rampant in key forest areas.The taskforce established that cedar trees were found to be the most targeted. The taskforce also established that from 2017, the KFS has been using a direct allocation process to award forest materials to saw millers. Prior to that there was an open tendering process to select, award and grant saw millers timber-logging rights. The direct allocation procedure being practiced by KFS is unfair, inadequate, and inappropriate; and the Taskforce uncovered incidences of its abuse. The taskforce recommended a complete overhaul in the way the commercial forest plantations are managed by KFS from plantations establishment to management, harvesting, valuation and disposal for optimal productivity and increased revenue generation.