Murang’a residents on Friday said the county government should impose a levy on water drawn from local rivers and channelled to Nairobi. They said the majority of them are suffering from lack of water as it is directed to Nairobi. The residents were giving their views during a public participation forum in the county assembly. The forum was attended by management of water companies. Residents said it is unfair for Nairobians to continue enjoying water drawn from their rivers. A Gaturi resident in Kiharu, Chris Mwangi, said the area that is semiarid does not have running water. He said revenue derived from the levy must be put to good use and expand water supply in the county. Mwangi recommended that board members of all water companies should be subjected to public scrutiny and the companies converted into public firms. “Before taking our water to Nairobi, let us all first have enough water and ensure water firms are fully owned by locals,” he said. Maragua resident Titus Muchiri said all water boards should be dissolved and new board members elected by the public. He said the new board members would then be accountable and give people power to demand accountability from water firms. Muchiri said Murang’a South suffers from lack of water and the levy revenue should be concentrated on the region. Resident Peter Kamau said it is unfortunate that a majority of public schools are not connected with water and pupils have to fetch it from rivers to clean their classrooms. Water companies’ managing directors presented a memorandum, saying they have achieved a lot. The companies, they said, have been badly affected by reduced tariffs and are unable to meet their financial obligations. They said they owed collective debts of Sh1.9 billion as at September. They said the companies have benefitted with water infrastructure investment of more than Sh3 billion from the national government. They said they have managed to increase water coverage from 29 per cent last year to 62 per cent this year, serving 647,010 people. Water committee’s Jane Wanjiru said the public forums will continue next week and they will pitch camp at Ndaka-ini shopping centre. She praised residents for turning up in large numbers to give their views on the law that is in the process of being drafted. Meanwhile, Murang’a MCAs have told off Nairobi governor Mike Sonko for threatening to demolish a house belonging to Governor Mwangi wa Iria if he does not back off from his bid to impose levy on Ndaka-ini water. They said it is immoral for the governor to attempt to intimidate leaders by making threats. The MCAs said they will not relent on their fight to pass a law that will compel Nairobi county to pay Ndaka-ini water levy. On Thursday, Sonko claimed Wa Iria had constructed a building on a road reserve and he would demolish it. Sonko said the water channelled to his county is drawn from the Aberdare Forest and Murang’a has no right to demand any levy.