Ugandan art maestro Jak Katarikawe passed away on 19
October in Nairobi. He is considered a trailblazer of the early generation of
contemporary East African artists. Born circa 1938 in the Kigazi region of south-west Uganda,
Katarikawe was the archetypal self-made artist. He came from a polygamous
family of humble background, and hardly received any education or formal art
training. As a child he used to draw pictures in the dirt while herding cattle
and recalled observing his mother decorating the mud walls of their home with
intricate patterns. Religious paintings that he saw in local churches sparked
in him a thirst to paint. As a young man, he was employed as a driver for David
Cook, a British lecturer in Kampala. Cook noticed Katarikawe’s talents, bought
him painting materials and also introduced him to Sam Ntiri, an art lecturer at
Makere University. Here, Katarikawe underwent a brief art coaching but dropped
out because of his limited reading skills. When his early artwork started
fetching good prices, Katarikawe gave up his job as a driver to concentrate
solely on art. In his work, Katarikawe generally utilised a palette of soft
colours, although there was the occasional vibrant illustration. He worked in
water colours, batiks, pencil and wood cut prints but oil on canvas was his
preferred medium. Families, human relations, village scenes, cattle and
wildlife were common subjects. He drew inspiration from his rural upbringing,
storytelling heritage and personal dreams. A strong narrative element
underpinned his work, while people and animal characters often occupied the
same surreal realm in his pictures. Katarikawe’s animal figures were distinct for their human
eyes and man-like poses. They acted like stage characters on canvas, passing on
his message about human experiences, morals and sensual fancies.  There is a story behind every Katarikawe
piece which he enjoyed describing to listening audiences. Overall, his
paintings exhibited dreamy traits and whimsical surrealism for which he has been
compared to European art greats Marc Chagall and Henri Rousseau. Katarikawe moved to Kenya in the 1970s during the reign
of President Idi Amin and remained here until his death. At the height of his
career, his much sought after paintings featured in several top galleries in
Nairobi such as Africa Heritage, the French Cultural Centre and Paa ya Paa art
centre. His work was exhibited around the world, thanks chiefly
to the marketing prowess of the late Ruth Schaffner, curator of the famous but now
defunct Gallery Watatu. Later, he worked with the subsequent gallery director, Kofi
Osei. More recently Alan Donovan, co-founder of African Heritage, scoured for older
Katarikawe works and presented them at the Nairobi Gallery. Katarikawe pieces
hang in places like the Kremlin in Moscow while over 150 works hang at the
Museum of World Cultures in Frankfurt, Germany. In recent years Katarikawe suffered from ill health and
was producing less work. Katarikawe will be buried in his home country of
Uganda.