Nairobi City Water and Sewerage Company’s huge wage bill has been blamed for the city’s water shortage. Company managing director Nahashon Muguna last week told the county water and sanitation committee that the soaring wage bill has hampered efforts to expand infrastructure. “It is a challenge that we don’t know how we can deal with. It has crippled our plans because the little money we generate goes to payment of staff,” Muguna said. In the current financial year, Muguna said, out of the total budget of Sh11.7 billion, Sh10.2 billion or 88.2 per cent will go to recurrent expenditure. Only Sh1.5 billion or 12.8 per cent will go toward development. Without disclosing thel number of employees, Muguna said that 900 people were employed in the last two years. Some 366 workers retired over the period. “It is a concern and we have been trying to streamline things because I cannot say that we need all the 900 staff that we employed in those two years,” Muguna told the committee chaired by Mihango MCA Paul Kados. Muguna said the company cannot initiate any capital project to improve water distribution because of the huge expenses on staff emoluments. This has made it to rely on donors and other well-wishers to improve water infrastructure, he said. Muguna also told the panel that the company loses about Sh2 billion annually to illegal water connections and leaking and burst pipes. In June, the committee identified Limuru Road, Lang’ata Road, Arboretum, Spring Valley, Globe Cinema Round-About and Riverside Drive as some of the areas with developments on river banks. Others include Westlands, Parklands, Fuata Nyayo estate in South B, Village Market, Gem Suites in Riverside and Alina Villas in Spring Valley. Some of the buildings demolished so far include Airgate Mall, Shell Petrol Station in Kileleshwa, Nakumatt Ukay Mall in Westlands and Southend Mall on Lang’ata Road. The regeneration exercise received Sh800 million for 2018-19. The company’s MD earlier this year had said that the water rationing will continue until 2026 due to a severe shortage in water catchment areas. This means that residents of Nairobi will continue to suffer poor sanitation. He said that non payment for services is also hampering operations . City Hall owes Nairobi Water at least Sh210 million last April.