Title: Everyone's Just Winging It And Other Fly Tales Artiste: Blinky Bill Genre: Hip-hop Release: October 19  Blinky Bill is among the few local artistes who managed to carve a niche for themselves and make a distinction. He is not your typical artiste even when he attempts to. He’s quite expressive about his commitment to defying the expectations of what it means to be an artiste in the industry, something he has been building towards since he was part of the creative Just a Band. 2016’s EP ‘We Cut Keys While You Wait’ was a brilliant start, and so have been his numerous solo projects. Now he gifts us with yet another amazing full-length LP, ‘Everyone’s Just Winging It And Other Fly Tales’. ‘EJWIAOFT’ is a 12-track album that simply kicks off with classic male humming vocals over an instrumentation on “Lwanda Magere,” before the artiste decides to get into a familiar territory of Swahili and English rap-sung lyricism on “Atenshan”.  It’s awe-inspiring how Blinky Bill is able to talk about real-life situations in such an elaborate manner, maintaining the authentic form he always exhibited since the back in the day. This is very clear as he demands to get paid what he’s earned on “Bills to Pay”. Featuring vocalists like Sage, Sarah Mitaru, Wambura Mitaru and Lisa Oduor Noah on “Mungu Halali” offers a wide-ranging glimpse into Blinky’s endless interaction, as this time he expresses his appreciation for what he has achieved so far. He also recruits Zambian artiste Sampa the Great, who completely switches the sound, before we get back to a sound more familiar with Blinky on the track “Showdown”, featuring Kenyan artiste Mvroe and Tanzanian Kiwango. Blinky cleverly interpolates K-South’s “Warui” on the interesting tune “Don’t Worry”, and celebrates his achievements in the slow, excitable track “Winner”. This is then followed by the album’s lead single, “Feeling It”, which obviously features vocals from Mayonde And Muthoni the Drummer Queen. Again, Blinky goes beyond our expectations, bringing on Belgian producer and singer Petite Noir and Nigerian singer Nneka on “Oh Wah”. He closes out the album with “Happy,” a track that simply questions why he can’t just be happy without worrying about other things. On an album meant to emphasis Blinky Bill’s existence as a standalone creative, he exhibits the authenticity and simplicity found in his concepts. This is his most daring progression, one that rewrites the rules that previously governed music in Kenya. Blinky enjoys being different and just like that releases an album that automatically inspires the listener and qualifies for consideration in the album of year category.  Star Rating: 4/5