Lands Cabinet Secretary Faridah Karoney says the government will issue an additional 350,000 title deeds across the country in the next five months. She says she will implement a directive from President Uhuru Kenyatta to speed up issuance of title deeds. Karoney and Speaker of the National Assembly Justin Muturi on Saturday presided over issuance of 2,000 title deeds to the Ogiek community in Uasin Gishu county. The state has so far issued more than two million titles in the last five years and Karoney said those who deserve the land ownership documents would receive them. “We will give out the 350,000 and then move to issue more in all counties,” said Karoney. She said the government is committed to improving the lives of Kenyans who have lived for years on their land without ownership documents. The Ogiek in Uasin Gishu were settled on land hived off the Cheboror public forest. They were allocated part of the forest by retired President Moi but have never been issued with titles. “I’m happy that the Ogiek community has finally been given titles, which they have deserved for many years. They will now use the title deeds to acquire credit from financial institutions to advance in their lives,” Karoney said. The event was attended by Uasin Gishu governor Jackson Mandago, Kapenguria MP Samuel Moroto, Bondo MP Gideon Ochanda, his Mosop counterpart Vincent Tuwei, Alfred Keter (Nandi Hills), Nandi woman representative Tecla Tum and her West Pokot counterpart Lillian Tomitom among others. The CS and Muturi complained of the high number of land cases families have filed in courts, delaying issuance of title deeds in most parts of the country. “Those with such cases in courts should embrace the alternative dispute resolution mechanism so that they can be finalised and where necessary we move to issue them with titles,” the CS said. Karoney said most of the land disputes in courts can be easily resolved through elders and other community structures. “Now that the government has handed over title deeds to members of the Ogiek community, they can now manage or even sub-divide their land to their children without any challenges,” she said. In his speech, Muturi urged communities not to rush to court over land matters.