The pending transition at the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission was long overdue. It should have happened in 2015. The transition raises questions about the EACC’s indecisive fight against corruption. In 2015, the President suspended four Cabinet secretaries and other state officers on account of raw data from the EACC secretariat. Then Lands CS Charity Ngilu, Agriculture CS Felix Koskei, Roads’ CS Michael Kamau, Kazungu Kambi of Labour and Davis Chirchir of Energy were suspended. The EACC presented the allegations to State House as actionable intelligence. But none of the suspects has been successfully prosecuted. Chief executive officer Halakhe Waqo presided over an institution that did not push for prosecution of prized corruption suspects. This claim is based on reported cases of corruption involving millions. The EACC is reluctant to investigate and prosecute the suspects. Giving whistle-blowers 10 per cent of recovered assets won’t work unless the EACC is reconstituted to protect the public interest. It is not for lack of information that the EACC is lacklustre. It’s compromise that undermines accountability.  The current presidential leadership of the fight against corruption should have started in 2015 or earlier. The presidency trusted the leadership of the EACC, but executive top dogs at Integrity Centre squandered the goodwill. A succession of chairmen departed.  The message was that the EACC has its ‘owners’. Zealous outsiders are not allowed to mess up the show. They ejected Mumo Matemu as EACC chairman before he could understand the system. The ‘owners’ of the EACC alleged incompetence before they ejected Matemu. He took up the position in 2013, succeeding lawyer PLO Lumumba. The lawyer could not handle vested interests at Integrity Centre. Nothing had prepared him for the intrigues. By publicly speaking about 10 or so files of high-octane corruption the EACC was handling, PLO had rattled lootocrats. Protectors of tumbocrats could not allow Lumumba to prosecute their geese. They orchestrated his exit. Philip Kinisu faced the same fate as Matemu and Lumumba. The owners of the EACC ensnared the board into compromising situations, then set public opinion against them. It works for ‘networked’ insiders, who protect vested interests. Eliud Wabukala, former head of the Anglican Church of Kenya, survives because he is a career outsider. He is too gentle, and humble, to confront vested interests. His advice is not considered in the system of protection. A case of the plunder of millions in NG-CDF allocation in a constituency in Western Kenya confirms this. The chairman asked the Kisii regional office to conclude investigations into fraud, first reported in 2015, with incontrovertible evidence of raw theft. Files, including photographic evidence, were presented to the EACC. But action did not come in two weeks as promised in May 2017. It has not come in four years. The Director of Public Prosecutions has referred this matter to the EACC tens of times in four years. ‘Owners’ of the EACC love management by witch-hunt. The Kisii regional office is reconstituted, and files shelved when investigators are on the trail of ‘sacred cows’. There are also reports of massive misuse of funds at the Homa Bay county executive, which the EACC glosses over. County offices have been burnt, files and computers stolen to cover up plunder. These took place under Waqo’s watch. If he did not know, then he wasn’t in charge. If he knew, and did nothing, then he was complicit. Waqo’s exit is an opportunity for an audit of the EACC’s performance, especially pending cases of mega-corruption involving county sacred cows. The transition offers a chance to interrogate the claim that the commission protects some corruption suspects in public finance, procurement and audit offices in Nairobi and in some counties. This network has a link to alumni of Indian universities of the 1980s. They hold strategic positions in public finance, procurement and audit. The EACC is yet to know what the public knows. kendowuonkendo@gmail.com