A rose without a
thorn. This was how Henry VIII, the King of England from the year 1509 to 1547,
fondly referred to his fifth wife, Catherine Howard. However, within 16
months, she had been stripped of her title as queen, and upon the King’s
orders,she was beheaded three months later on suspicion of adultery. She was 16
years while Henry VIII was 50. This is how far back
instances of uxoricide goes. Uxoricide is the murder of one’s wife or romantic
partner. A more recent iconic case is that of O.J. Simpson, a famous footballer
in the National Football League, who was charged with murdering his wife Nicole
Brown after she was found gruesomely stabbed to death outside her home. Closer home, the
nation’s attention has in recent weeks been riveted to two instances of
uxoricide, where the lacerated lifeless bodies of Sharon Otieno and Monica
Kimani were discovered in a forest and a bathtub, respectively. Sadly, they
join the statistics of young women who have been ‘butchered so young’, as
described in one of our local dailies. A study that sampled
over 17,000 uxoricides and published in the ScienceDirect Journal in 2011,
found that reproductive age women are more likely to be killed by hands-on
killing methods, relative to older, post-productive age women. The researchers
found that intimate partner homicides are a byproduct of sexual strategies for
reproductive control of women by men. They suggested that there is an inherent
conflict between mating partners. That men often desire exclusive sexual access
to their partners to reduce the likelihood that they will invest resources in
offspring to whom they are genetically unrelated. Therefore, the higher mate
value of reproductive age women puts them at an increased risk for male sexual
jealousy and ‘mate guarding’ tactics that raise their risk of uxoricide. The study also found
that women sometimes pursue a strategy of entering into a relationship with one
man, while seeking ‘good-genes’ from another man. Professor Bryan Caplan
unpacks this further through his observation that just as men tend to be
polygamous, women tend to be hypergamous. Hypergamy is the action of marrying a
person of a superior social status, which in most cases tends to be older men
who are economically successful in life. The socioeconomic
status of a man is a major determinant of his attractiveness to younger women.
And his attraction increases a notch higher when he is also a public figure for
example a politician, a media personality, or a pop culture icon. And in
today’s technologically advanced world, where images of ‘success’ and ‘living
the good life’ are at our fingertips, the appetite to be ‘one of them’ becomes
very seductive. Let us use an allegory
of a tree to describe hypergamy. At the top of the tree, are the high tier
males and at the bottom are the lower tier males. The average males are in
between the roots of the tree and the leaves at the top. The high tier males
attract the most number of females, the next most sought after are the average
males and lastly those that are the lower tier males. As a male, the way to
rise from the bottom to the top tier, is to increase your value. This can be
achieved in three ways. One, by increasing your wealth. Women are attracted to
men who can provide for their security, needs and offspring. Two, your physique
and well-being. A six pack and well-toned muscles will be more attractive to a
woman any day than a pot belly. Three, your social status. This means where you
are positioned socially in relation to other men, for instance if you are well-respected or well-known. When a woman leaves a man in the lower tier for a man
in a higher tier, this is known as branch swinging. My submission, therefore,
to young women who have embraced the ‘sponsor’ culture is that, two halves of a
goat are not the same as a full goat; it’s value decreases. When you date a
sponsor, his value to you is bisected and your risks of uxoricide increase.
There are several barriers that have been removed to enable you to achieve the
same social status, wealth, physique and respectability as the men so that you
do not have to believe that your only get out of jail or poverty free card is
through hypergamy. These include affirmative actions such as the gender
responsive thirty per cent procurement, credit facilities and access to the
labor market. To the young men, the
phrase mwanaume ni effort is literal. So the way to rise to the high
tier of the hypergamy tree will not be by gambling your life away, by
tenderpreneuring or tithing. Contrary to popular belief, the most essential
ingredient in wealth creation and economic growth is not money. It is
knowledge. And this is what has made the modern man wealthier than the cave man.
Examples abound such as invention of the penicillin or innovations that lead to
new products and new industries such as those in the telecommunications sector.
And for the record, young women too can occupy this space of new knowledge
creation and innovation just as well, or even better than young men can. Finally my unsolicited
advice is bifurcated, one to the state and the other to parents. The state’s
urge to regulate is inherent in its desire to protect its subjects. However,
over regulation leads to a constriction on knowledge development and innovation,
which in turn deprives the society of new products, new industries and
ultimately the much needed wealth generation and economic growth. So I suggest
that we invest more in the knowledge and innovation ecosystem by funding
promising knowledge products and innovations that die a natural death for lack
of resources to uptick them to the next level of utilization. And to parents, you
cannot recognize counterfeit if you don’t know what genuine is. So, how authentic
are you to yourselves and to your children?  It is pointless to teach
someone a lesson by killing them – Mokokoma Mokhonoana 