President Uhuru Kenyatta celebrates his 57th birthday today. It marks exactly a year since Kenya went to the repeat presidential polls which he won with 8.2 million votes in the polls boycotted by Nasa's Raila Odinga. DP William Ruto was among the leaders who wished him a happy birthday, terming him an able leader. "Happy birthday to @UKenyatta, an able leader. Your astute stewardship and focus to ensure good for man and country has won you recognition," Ruto said in a tweet. "God's wisdom as you unite Kenya and build a formidable legacy. My friend, confidant and boss many happy returns of the day!" he added. Others who wished Uhuru well on his big day was State House Digital Director Dennis Itumbi. "Happy Birthday. I wish you more than a thousand more sunrises and as always I remain clay in your firm guidance, rebuke and nurturing. God Bless You and Keep You Sir," Itumbi tweeted on Friday. The tweet was followed by a series of others. "Happy Birthday Mr. President. God's abundant blessings," @SangHaggai said. "Remind him this was the day we woke up early to employ him. Was it worth?" @Alex_mugoh said. "Hii ndo ile siku tuliambiwa tupige kura mapema then twende birthday ya uhuru..hope leo tutakata keki statehouse," Abdaz said. "Live Long Mr President. Happy Birth Day. Mungu Akulinde," Vincent Langat said. Mavoni Wafula said Uhuru was auctioning the country to foreigners. "On a day like this you and other kumiras gifted the man a whole country which he cannot manage and now his selling it piece by piece," Wafula said. The repeat polls were called after the Supreme Court nullified Uhuru's August 8 win on September 1 last year. Chief Justice David Maraga said the Presidential election was not conducted in accordance with the Constitution. He said it was marred with irregularities and illegalities. Read:Raila wins as Supreme Court nullifies Uhuru re-election While Jubilee supporters lined up to vote for Uhuru, Nasa principals had declared it as a normal day. ODM's Raila Odinga, ANC's Musalia Mudavadi, WIPER's Kalonzo Musyoka and FORD Kenya's Moses Wetangula urged their supporters to boycott the repeat polls. They claimed the IEBC settled on October 26 as the election date as a 'gift' to Uhuru on his 56th birthday. Uhuru was announced the winner in the controversial repeat presidential elections on October 30. He garnered 8,203,290 against Raila's 6,762,224 votes. The voter turnout was 38.84 per cent. Read: Uhuru re-elected President on 39% voter turnout Related:Supreme Court verdict: Uhuru was legally declared president-elect - Njoki Ndung'u Chaos erupted in various Nasa strongholds like Kibera, Mathare, Kisumu and Migori with many losing their lives. Tear gas canisters, gunshots, barricaded roads and buildings set ablaze were the norm during the election period. Uhuru has been lauded for his efforts to fight graft and for the famous March 9 handshake between him and opposition leader Raila Odinga. He, together with Raila, will be honoured with Black History Month, African Peace Award 2018 for the handshake. Read:[VIDEO] Corruption fight my legacy, Uhuru says in renewed push for lifestyle audit Read: Handshake reward: Uhuru, Raila honoured with 'Black history peace Award' Click here for the latest political news