Nairobi County will partner with the National Hospital Insurance Fund (NHIF) to cover poor households. Governor Mike Sonko said the new medical scheme will be unveiled soon to cushion vulnerable groups in the city. He said the cover will ensure residents get quality and free medical services in county hospitals. Sonko spoke on Friday during the groundbreaking ceremony for the construction of the Kihumbuini Stadium in Kangemi. “My administration will partner with NHIF to ensure quality and affordable health care services are offered in our county hospitals. I want us to support President Uhuru Kenyatta’s Big Four agenda by offering accessible healthcare to the public,” said Sonko. Sonko also announced plans to transform Pumwani maternity hospital. The Governor has said his administration will fully implement a task force report that was formed after the recent discovery of twelve bodies of infants at the hospital. “We have developed a modernized plan for Pumwani Maternity Hospital. The sad cases of high maternal mortality must come to an end. After the project is completed Nairobians will enjoy quality healthcare at the facility and I also want my family members to seek medical services in our county hospitals,” stated the Governor. See: [VIDEO] Sonko suspends Pumwani boss after 12 babies die in machine glitch He allayed fears that the Hospital will be privatized after he recently announced a partnership deal with Aga Khan and Nairobi West Hospitals. The Governor also promised that construction of the Kihumbuini stadium will meet international standards. “We are constructing four new stadiums in Nairobi as promised during my campaigns. Already the new Dandora stadium is near completion and will be officially opened in December 2018. Construction of the other two Jacaranda and Woodley stadiums will commence soon,” he added. The event was also attended by MCAs among them Kangemi Ward representative Paul Shem Shilaho. Read: Sonko finds 12 dead babies hidden at Pumwani store Click here for the latest political news