The push for constitutional review had gained momentum soon after the handshake. Pundits opined that the country has witnessed unhealthy political tensions every election cycle. These tensions have been occasioned by provisions within the supreme law that are not in synch with the practicalities of our nation. The offending or weak legal articles have created inconsistencies that are the bane of Kenya’s fledgling democracy. While the 2010 Constitution has been hailed as a master within the continent, local observers have argued it borrowed to heavily from the US model. It should have been tempered with local traditions and historical experiences to ensure successful implementation. The ethnic configuration of the nation should have been factored into the fabric of the constitution. This is largely responsible for the regular polarization of the nation at every successive election. Review of the national laws was one of the pillars of the unity deal between Raila Odinga and President Uhuru Kenyatta. However, political leaders allied to Ruto saw in this an attempt to scuttle the presidential bid of the Sugoi man. From the onset, Ruto and company dismissed the Building Bridges Initiative as inconsequential to national healing unity. They branded it an attempt by Raila to access government through the back door. The handshake was derisively referred to as Nusu Mkate initiative. In spite of Raila’s repeated clarification that he had intention of joining Uhuru’s government, Ruto’s camp did not buy it. They drove the message that Raila was never content with losing a political duel. He always sought to play a major role in government even if it was a negotiated arrangement. If Raila were to enter into government, then he was going to scuttle the apple’s cart. Every effort had to be made to stop his bid in establishing a warm and working relationship with the president. Matters were not helped by the growing rebellion against the Deputy President from central region. The rebellion began as whispers from some few legislators but soon became loud and enjoined many more including former MPs and governors. Ruto’s camp saw an orchestrated scheme to derail his best shot at the presidency and had to do something. He soon launched nationwide tours to promote and assess the government’s projects. These tours were aimed at projecting him as the second in command and not Raila. It was also meant portray him as the only lieutenant of the president. He had hoped to use these tour endear him to the Jubilee bedrock while at the same time appealing to NASA strongholds. The tours were roundly critized by the opposition as a waste public resources. However, what might have stung the DP to the harsh reality was the reprimand from his boss, Uhuru Kenyatta. In one of off the cuff remarks while addressing a rally in Eastlands Nairobi, he admonished his deputy to stop kutangatanga. Soon thereafter, the push for a referendum from the proponents of the handshake gained traction. Ruto and company renewed their criticism and opposition of the same. He variously declared that the government was determined to deliver on its pre-election pledges. He averred that the Jubilee party had no intention of reviewing the laws that had just been promulgated less than a decade ago. In these declarations he had hoped to rope in the president and get the support of the ruling party rank and file. However, President Uhuru Kenyatta maintained a studious silence and appeared unbothered. His disposition and public mien betrayed a leader determined to avoid other people’s battles. His close associates on the other hand openly declared support for a discussion on the constitution. It was thus clear that the unity between ODM and TNA had morphed into a political juggernaut, impossible to ignore. The push for constitutional change was degenerating into a feud between Ruto and Uhuru together with Raila. It was now becoming embarrassing for the DP as he appeared to fight everything Raila even if it involved undermining his friend and boss Uhuru. The country had interpreted Uhuru’s silence as a nod to Raila’s project. Uncharacteristically, some of Raila’s allies exposed his game plan a little too early. They declared that Tinga will be on the ballot in 2022. Senator at a funeral in Siaya claimed that Raila stood the best chance to succeed Uhuru as president. On the other side of South Nyanze Suna East MP, Hon. Junet Mohamed declared that the NASA MoU cannot bar Raila from standing again. Ruto’s camp has therefore interpreted these events as calculated to create safe passage for Raila to state house. Their earlier fears have now been confirmed; they can no longer rely on Uhuru’s camp neither can they wish Raila away. The Deputy President has invested heavily on his quest to become Kenya’s head of state over time. In the course of this exercise, he has made many allies, built extensive grassroots networks, but also attracted formidable enemies and detractors. His quest for the highest office in the land has united unlikely political players. From the Rift Valley, his benefactor and mentor Mzee Moi has had to join forces with perennial oppositionist Raila. It will be recalled that Raila had become the KANU decimator to Moi. It is understood that Mzee Moi never forgave Raila for frustrating his vision of Uhuru presidency. Raila did not only derail Uhuru’s initial attempt, he also relegated the independence party to oblivion. Ruto is now alive to these overt machinations and might have decided to change tact. Instead of openly opposing the referendum whose content is yet to be determined, he may have found it prudent to reduce his costs. Courting political battle with Raila who is in unity with Uhuru, and enjoying tacit support of Mzee Moi would sup his energy unnecessarily. In any case supporting the referendum call does not necessarily mean lending weight to Raila’s agenda. His closest ally, Senator Kipchumba Murkomen, while appearing on Citizen’s show with Hussein Mohamed was clear that they will be on the opposite side at the referendum. Most if not all the issues being canvassed to on the referendum question are intended to disperse the presidential powers and authority. It is only logical that when the time comes, Ruto together with legion of supporters should pitch tent on the NO side. The DP might as well have argued that the referendum would accord him a perfect opportunity to test the strength of his avowed nemesis, Raila Odinga. There will be valuable lessons learnt from the grueling campaigns. The successes scored would buttressed while the mistakes made would be remedied in time for the 2022 battle royale. The outcome of the referendum would therefore help him improve his chances of becoming the Fifth President of the Republic of Kenya. 