Some Nyandarua MCAs have hit out at Jubilee Party secretary general Raphael Tuju for meddling in the county assembly’s work. The 19 reps called him a stranger who has no mandate to communicate directly with them or give the speaker directions. They blamed Tuju for the wrangles in the House and warned that they will not sit back and watch him run roughshod over them. The county assembly is an autonomous arm of government and will never be an appendage of Jubilee Party, the MCAs said. The assembly was adjourned indefinitely on September 28 but resumed sittings on Tuesday. The closure followed a fracas triggered by speaker Wahome Ndegwa’s refusal to recognise Edinald Kingori as the Majority leader, Wangari Methu as the Majority chief whip, Justus Gaita as the deputy Majority leader and Geoffrey Ngaruiya as the deputy chief whip. The four were picked by 22 Jubilee MCAs at a Nakuru hotel on September 10. They were to replace Kamau Gathungu (Majority leader), Ken Mukira (deputy Majority leader) and Hussein Kassana (chief whip). Ngaruiya was to take over from Wangari Methu (deputy chief whip) who had been proposed for chief whip. Ndegwa rejected the changes, saying the purge was illegal. This led to acrimony and disorder that persisted for three consecutive sittings, prompting him to adjourn the House. Thereafter, Tuju summoned the MCAs to the party headquarters in Nairobi to seek a way forward. An October 3 meeting retained King’ori as the Majority leader, Methu (chief whip) and Gaita (deputy Majority leader). Ngaruiya was dropped and the position of deputy chief whip given to ousted deputy Majority leader Mukira. Ndegwa has not acknowledged the  names. Yesterday, 22 MCAs barred him from accessing the chamber, accusing him of rejecting the list. Amid the confusion, orderlies roughed up, clobbered and ejected journalists from the gallery, allegedly acting on Ndegwa’s instructions. They confiscated press cards. Some MCAs and serjeant-at-arms Benjamin Gatunga came to their rescue. One reporter suffered arm injuries. Tuju had informed the speaker of the changes. In an October 5 letter, he directed Ndegwa to reconvene the assembly immediately. “Without further delay, the Nyandarua county assembly should be reconvened to discharge its mandate of legislature, oversight and representation,” Tuju wrote. Ndegwa reconvened the House through Gazette notice 1,054 of October 12. The House resumed sittings at 2.30pm on Tuesday. On the Order Paper were two communications, one on the untimely adjournment and the other on Tuju’s letter to the speaker. Nineteen MCAs backed Ndegwa by rejecting the letter. They said it would be illegal for him to make a communication about it.  That would bring the House into disrepute, they warned. Rising on a point of order, Wanjohi MCA Isaac Kungu said Standing Order 19( 5 ) and Article 176 of the Constitution recognise the assembly as a state organ, hence they would only follow the Standing Orders as their operation rules. “I want an interpretation whether by law the Jubilee Party, and more so the party secretary general, can communicate to the speaker directly or even direct the speaker on the communication to make to this assembly,” he said. “You [speaker] don’t have the mandate to communicate anything from the party. When the secretary general writes to you as the secretary general, he is a stranger to this House.” Kungu said Tuju can only write to the chief whip, who, in turn, writes to the speaker and annexes the secretary general’s letter. Kipipiri MCA Paul Ngeche (independent) warned that the assembly had been turned into a Jubilee Party office. His Magumu counterpart Kassana said, “We’re independent members who can choose our leaders. I don’t expect the secretary general to dictate this assembly. We’re not ready to take those orders.” Ndegwa will rule on the matter next Tuesday. He expressed concern that the letter was exclusively addressed to him but Tuju released it to other parties before he received it. “I saw it circulate on social media on October 5 — a day before I received it,” he said.