Marginalised communities are defined as groups of people who are treated as insignificant or peripheral. They are confined to the lower edge of society and are denied involvement in mainstream economic, political, cultural and social activities. For years, Kenya has referred to communities living in Northeastern as marginalised communities. Historically, due to various reasons, including the Shifta War, past governments have done little to improve the lives of people there. Legal and policy frameworks were adopted to further marginalise the communities. The Indemnity Act was one such framework. The Act, which was repealed in 2010, restricted legal proceedings against the armed forces (amongst others) for acts committed in Northeastern Province and adjacent areas, including Lamu. This meant that the people could not seek legal redress for any violations committed against them by security forces. Although the Act has been repealed, reports still persist from Northeastern of atrocities committed by security forces. Kenyans have read reports of alleged extrajudicial killings, enforced disappearances, torture and rape at the hands of security forces. While the authorities may dismiss this as propaganda, one recent incident points to the continued violation of rights by security agents. In the morning of September 25, an Improvised Explosive Device (IED) went off when a KDF vehicle drove over it on the El Wak–Kotulo road in Mandera county. The vehicle was damaged and several officers injured; luckily there were no fatalities. It is reported that KDF called for reinforcements to help deal with the situation. Communities say what followed was torture, harassment, destruction of property and livestock and the death of one person. Neither the youth nor the elderly were spared the wrath of the officers. Medical officers were publicly flogged. Residents said the officers accused them of working with and hiding al Shabaab insurgents. The medical staff were accused by the KDF officers of providing medical assistance to al Shabaab insurgents. Haki Africa visited the area on a human rights fact-finding mission to document the atrocities. It is apparent that wholesale condemnation tactics were applied. While it is true that al Shabaab continues to pose a threat to the KDF officers and local residents as exemplified by the IED attack, condemning the entire community, torturing and harassing them was not only wrong but illegal and unconstitutional. The community complained of being collectively punished for what they condemn and do not support. They abhor al Shabaab and are themselves victims of terror attacks. Communities fail to understand how the KDF would associate locals with al Shabaab and torture them for mistakes committed by the terror group. It is Haki Africa’s view that such acts of wholesale condemnation only serve to widen the gap between communities and the security forces. Article 19 ( 2 ) of the Constitution provides that “the purpose of recognising and protecting human rights and fundamental freedoms is to preserve the dignity of individuals and communities and to promote social justice and the realisation of the potential of all human beings.” The people of Northeastern are marginalised yet they are human beings and Kenyans. As such they are entitled to the full enjoyment of their rights as guaranteed by the Constitution. The time has come to open up the region and bring the communities into the mainstream Kenyan agenda. Flagrant violation of their rights will push them further away at a time when the country needs to embrace and bring them closer. The actions of KDF must be condemned by all Kenyans. We cannot have a region of our country where KDF or any other security agents operate with impunity and become a law unto themselves. Strict action must be taken against the officers responsible for the atrocities. No person, unit or agency should operate extralegally. Security agencies should always remember that they operate on borrowed powers of the people. At no time should the rights of the sovereign people be infringed by those exercising powers on behalf of the sovereign.