Human Rights Watch will hold a three-day film festival in Nairobi next week to empower audiences with the knowledge that personal commitment can make a difference. The festival will run from October 30 to November 2 at various venues, including Alliance Francais and Alchemist. Admission is free. The films to be aired include: All Governments Lie, directed by Fred Peabody (Canada); Scarred (Judy Kibinge, Kenya); This is Congo (Daniel McCabe, DR Congo/US/Canada); and Watatu (Nick Reding, Kenya). In selecting films for the festival, Human Rights Watch concentrates equally on artistic merit and human rights content. The festival encourages filmmakers around the world to address human rights subject matter in their work and presents films from both new and established international filmmakers. Kenya is well represented through Scarred and Watatu. Scarred revisits 1984, when security forces rounded up 5,000 men in a remote part of Northern Kenya, and herded them onto a deserted airstrip. Over the course of four days, they were tortured, maimed and killed. Three decades later, scarred survivors narrate the story of their ordeal to the country’s first Truth and Justice and Reconciliation Commission, travelling all the way to the capital city of Nairobi in search of answers from the government administrators of the time. Will justice be served to a community that’s waited three decades long for it? Watatu, on the other hand, follows the story of three men whose lives become intertwined as one of them, Yusuf, a young unemployed Muslim, becomes radicalised by an extremist group. Yusuf’s family and friends feel powerless to help him. His uncle and only father figure Salim cannot find the words to counter the extremist ideology, and Salim’s old friend Jack, a local policeman, struggles to gain Yusuf’s trust. As tensions rise in the port city, Yusuf is eventually driven to a desperate and tragic act. At this point the film takes a different turn: Can the people of Mombasa stop Yusuf before he reaches the point of no return?