Thirty-nine companies contracted by Kenya Power to supply labour and transport services in October last year were not listed with the Registrar of Companies at the time. A Milimani court yesterday heard that 262 others did not have the required National Construction Authority certification. Head of internal audit Charles Cheruiyot said a total of 1,354 companies had applied for the tender and 525 of them were pre-qualified to supply the services. Some 525 companies were contracted to supply the services for two years between October 1 last year and October 30, 2019. Cheruiyot said the pre-qualification process was flawed from the start as the tender documents were opened by two officials – Bernard Muturi and Everlyne Amondi – instead of the statutory three. He said an official – David Makesi – who was supposed to be among the three, did not turn up for the exercise. Cheruiyot said he recommended administrative action against him because he did not give a satisfactory explanation for being absent. Makesi told the auditors he was engaged in company activities at the time he was to be with the team opening tender applications submitted by bidders. The internal audit revealed two of the companies were linked to KPLC employees who have been fired after the audit report established a conflict of interest. KPLC’s employee Ngangi King’oo’s wife was a director of Linnale Consortium, while a company linked to employee Linda Kawira was also pre- qualified – hence a conflict of interest. Cheruiyot told chief magistrate Lawrence Mugambi the evaluation committee reviewed specifications during the assessment and some companies that did not have capacity were pre-qualified. Read: KPLC managers spend the night in police cells All its members – including Daniel Tare, Abubakar Swale, Harun Karisa, Bernard Ngugi and Beatrice Meso – are facing trial alongside former KPLC MD Ken Tarus, who was the accounting officer. Cheruiyot said he ordered an audit after Tarus told him there were allegations about the tenders and complaints had been raised about the transparency of the pre-qualification process. The audit revealed some of the companies shared addresses and four had been given similar contracts in the past. The tenders are the exodus of the suit in which Tarus and 11 others are charged with Sh4.5 billion procurement fraud. Three directors of Muwa Trading Company are also facing charges of allegedly colluding with the senior KPLC managers to defraud the state corporation through illegal contracts. All the suspects have denied the charges and are out on bond. Also See: More charged in Kenya Power tenders case Click here for the latest political news   