 Makueni governor Kivutha Kibwana (pictured) as president deputised by United Nations Conference on Trade and Development secretary general Mukhisa Kituyi! Plausible? This is the thinking of a group of Kenyans who believe it's time to redeem Kenya's political leadership in 2022 and bury tribalism. It is not clear whether the two would accept the challenge. But the campaign to have them contest for the top job is gaining momentum. In fact, its dubbed “2022 Wapende Wasipende Movement”. Meaning, the two do not have a choice but to ran. But some people were heard saying the same people pushing for Kivutha and Kituyi's candidature are the same people who “lied” to Peter Kenneth to contest the presidency in 2013.  Was there a powerful individual pushing to have cartels at the National Cereals and Produce Board paid at the expense of genuine farmers? Well, what is not in doubt is that the schemes thoroughly infuriated President Uhuru Kenyatta. Even after warning against any such attempts at the Nairobi Showground last week, an angry Uhuru publicly confronted Agriculture CS Mwangi Kiunjuri, pointing at him and warning him against the unknown. Its now whispered that some people in government still wanted payments made to shadowy characters. This even after the controversial payment claimed its first causalities including Agriculture PS Richard Lesyampe who was charged with corruption.  One of the graft suspects is the talk of town. Reason? The man nearly collapsed after he learnt that his investigator had been taken off his case. Sources whispered to Corridors that the man had dished out a fat bribe to the detective to kill the probe. The revelation has also put the graft busters on the spot. Some of them are said to have accumulated a lot of wealth in recent days. Its whispered that many top government officials have recently parted with huge bribes to be left off the hook. Two are current and former CEOs of lucrative state corporations. The others are members of an independent institution. It's not clear if the graft spearheaded by President Uhuru Kenyatta will succeed.  Why is he hiding his wife from the public? This is the question some are asking about an aide working in the office of the Deputy President William Ruto. The aide always splashes the pictures of his family, minus the wife on social media. Interestingly, when the pictures are taken, it's clear the whole family was together. But the man conveniently crops out the wife. The wife also does the same. Is it a case of a man and wife protecting their family or the marriage is falling apart?