Agriculture CS Mwangi Kiunjuri now risks being censured after he failed for the fourth time to appear before a Parliamentary committee. The National Assembly’s Agriculture committee yesterday issued him with summons to appear, failure to which the committee either will fine him Sh500,000 or pass a censure motion against him. Chairman Adan Haji said Kiunjuri’s failure to appear and respond to queries raised by the legislators was an indication he is not serious with his work. “This is the fourth time we were expecting the CS to appear before this committee. Today’s (yesterday) was at the request of the minister but he did not even communicate to us why he was unable to come,” Haji told journalists at Parliament Buildings after turning away a delegation of officials from the Ministry led by Livestock PS Harry Kimtai. Read: [VIDEO] EACC arrests PS Lesiyampe, NCPB finance boss over Sh6bn maize scandal The PS unsuccessfully attempted to explain to the agitated MPs that Kiunjuri “was held up in other urgent commitments”. Kiunjuri was expected to respond to among other things the crisis facing maize farmers, the status of maize at the National Cereals and Produce Board, payment of farmer audit report of the maize imported from Mexico and South Africa among other countries and also the threats by some millers to increase the prices of unga. “Take this stern warning to the CS that we will compel him to appear before the committee,” Haji told the ministry officials. Moiben MP Silas Tiren, a member of the committee, is said Kiunjuri was not serious with his work “no wonder the President is always reprimanding him in public”. More of this: Government pays out Sh978m of Sh1.4bn owed to maize farmer “We need to take action. The same CS is giving the President problems,” he said. “This is a joke. No Cabinet Secretary no Chief Administrative Secretary? This is serious,” Navakholo MP Emmanuel Wangwe, who is also the vice chair of the committee, said. Kiunjuri was first expected to appear before the committee on August 11 but he asked to be excused and appear on September 27. He did not show up, forcing the committee to postpone the meeting to October 11. He also failed to turn up, saying he was attending a Cabinet meeting at State House. He requested to appear yesterday. Click here for the latest political news