South Nyanza Sugar Company lost cane
valued at Sh2.3 billion to private firms notorious for cane poaching in that
region, MPs heard yesterday. The cane, according to the company’s acting
managing director Bernard Otieno, had sugar value of Sh5 billion when processed. Sony had invested Sh400 million in
the farmers from 2011 to date. Otieno claimed Sukari Industries and
Mara Sugar in Trans Mara is responsible for the rampant poaching, which has
almost made it difficult for the state-owned miller to operate. He noted the private millers are capitalising
on the small-scale farmers’ vulnerability and convince them to sell contracted sugarcane. “Even as we speak now I continue losing
sugar to the poachers. I can show you the dates, from which plot numbers and
which quantity gone to who and where,” said Bernard. “Complains have been taken to the
regulator and the police. We are helpless, we had submissions that breach of
contract is a civil matter and Police have taken view that they cannot approach
it as criminal matter.” Read: Lake region bloc meet to discuss sugar woes Rongo MP Paul Abuor, in whose
constituency lies the miller, called for tightening of the contractual agreement
with farmers to allow the firm take legal action in case of a breach. “The company should find a way of
getting into contractual agreement with the farmers so that in the event
of  cane poaching, the company can go to
court,” he said. The acting MD told the lawmakers
that the company is currently piloting clustering of farmers in groups of ten
each for easier accountability. The only surviving miller –
according to the acting MD – has been forced to incur extra expenses in hiring additional
personnel to mount surveillance in the contracted plots to ensure their canes
are intact. “Part of it is theft while in some
cases it is collusion with farmers as the private millers offers them
opportunity to escape from their contractual obligations,” he stated. The Sony boss also cautioned against
setting up of the proposed Kisii-based Nyangweta Sugar Factory claiming the
area is already over-served by both Sony and Mara companies. Stakeholders in the industry have
been rooting for introduction of regional zoning to curb the poaching menace occasioned
by undue scramble for cane. Read: We won’t allow Sony Sugar to be privatised, leaders say More: Sugar industry on its deathbed Click here for
the latest political news