Kitui Governor Charity
Ngilu yesterday urged women to deliver through caesarean section to avoid the risk of fistula. She said there is a high
number of fistula cases caused by prolonged and obstructed labour. The solution, Ngilu said, lies in caesarean section. The governor said at least 50 per cent of pregnant women
in Kitui county face the risk of fistula since they give birth at home.
She said only 48 per cent deliver in health
facilities. Ngilu spoke at the county referral hospital in Kitui town, where she inspected the county's first free fistula medical camp, which is targetting 30 women for corrective surgery. Read: C-section delivery: What you need to know before the cut The camp has attracted women from Embu, Nairobi and Garissa. Ngilu said her administration is keen on reducing fistula cases
by ensuring health facilities are accessible to most residents. She said screening
for fistula is offered in most health facility
in Kitui. “I call on women with complicated cases to visit the nearby
hospitals for confirmation tests and subsequent treatment,” Ngilu said. “We urge all women of reproductive health to make use of our
trained health workers and equipped facilities to reduce the risk of
complications that result in fistula.” Health chief officer
Richard Muthoka said 54
cases had been diagnosed in the past five days and the women hospitalised while 19 others were awaiting surgery. The Flying Doctors
Society of Africa vice chairman John Mramba said the group seeks to support
women with obstetric fistula. He said the women will be treated free of charge. Mramba said there are
estimated 1,000 to 3,000 new cases of fistula annually in Kenya, with only 7.5
per cent being able to access medical
care. A UN report in 2004
estimated the backlog of fistula cases to be as high as 300,000. Since 2006,
approximately 4,000 women in Kenya suffering from fistula have undergone
successful surgeries. Read: C-section births rise rapidly to more than 20 per cent worldwide More: C-section kids at higher risk of contracting diseases - WHO Click here for
the latest political news