Ezra Chiloba was fired as IEBC CEO after being found culpable for committing procurement irregularities during the 2017 general elections. Chairman Wafula Chebukati said in a statement on Saturday that the official was found to have acted in violation of sections of his contractual obligations. He cited Chiloba's failure to implement various Commission/Board decisions and resolutions as among the reasons for the Friday decision. "In tandem with fair admisnitrative action, the Commission subsequently invited Chiloba to appear before the Disciplinary Committee so as to provide responses to the charges leveled against him. He, however, twice failed to honor the summons." "Chiloba’s gross misconduct, breach and violation of the Commission's Human Resource and Administration policies as well as other relevant legislation left the Commission with no option other than to terminate his employment contract," the chairman said. He cited contraventions of the IEBC Act, Public Finance Management Act (PFMA), and Public Procurement and Disposal Act. For his part, Chiloba maintained his innocence saying his sacking was just a hallmark of a dysfunctional electoral agency, warning that the issues he faced will affect the next officer if not addressed. "The matter of my disciplinary process revealed a major governance crisis at the IEBC." Chiloba said he was informed of a meeting on Thursday, October 11, where he was to appear before Chebukati, Abdi Guliye, and Boya Molu to defend himself. See: Chebukati defends Chiloba's suspension, says to pave way for probe He poked holes on the decision to sack him saying the same three commissioners, who voted to send him on compulsory leave, were the same members of the disciplinary committee. Chiloba said the proceeding "was is in itself questionable" upon review of how the Commission had conducted itself during the said audit. He added that the IEBC, against standard practice, did not give him a chance to defend himself over the audit queries. Read: CEO Chiloba suspended, IEBC in chaos Also read: IEBC crisis persists as Chebukati suspends Chiloba yet again Click here for the latest political news  