Nyandarua Governor Francis Kimemia has ordered fresh EACC vetting for the county's senior officials. He said the officers will sign a new Code of Conduct after the vetting in line with a recently passed county assembly law. Kimemia said a sub-committee has already been formed within the Cabinet to put measures, structures, and systems in place to detect, prevent and deter corruption. "The county has a specific leadership code which officers committed themselves to when they took their oath of office," he said. He said much as senior officials have been vetted by EACC, the review will be to check compliance with the said Code of Conduct. "We will also forward the names of chief officers for clearance on financial probity, corruption, criminal conduct, and tax compliance in due course," he said. Kimemia said he had written to the EACC to conduct a corruption risk assessment on the county’s systems, procedures and practices. This, he said, covers various departments as part of efforts aimed at curbing the vice. "A county Anti-Corruption Policy, aligned to EACC guidelines, is also being developed and will be submitted to the commission for review once ready," the former head of public service said. He spoke when officially closing a two-day workshop on leadership and integrity for senior Nyandarua officers at KARLO in Naivasha. The governor decried budget limitations and underscored the need to ensure public resources were utilised by all county officers. "Only Sh2 billion of the disbursed Sh6 billion is left for agriculture, education, health, water, roads among many other development priorities," he said. "The only way that I can transform Nyandarua is to fight corruption. Any wastage and misappropriation of the meagre resources cannot be tolerated." On his part, EACC deputy director Charles Rasugu said a survey identified county health departments as the most corrupt. As per the survey, the number of those who paid bribes to get services rose from 46 per cent to 62.2 per cent in a period of one year. Click here for the latest political news