Political leaders in Uasin Gishu county will not allow demolition of illegally built houses in Eldoret town and its environs, Kapseret MP Oscar Sudi has said. He said the multi-agency team carrying out the demolition must consult local leaders before bringing down any structures that have been declared unsafe. Sudi said 27 structures built on riparian land and wetlands are targeted. He urged the government to proceed with caution. Sudi, a close ally of Deputy President William Ruto, told owners of the targeted buildings not to worry, as he and other leaders will give the property “political protection” against demolition. The MP spoke in Eldoret on Wednesday during a funds drive to offset the medical bills of prominent businessman Benjamin Kiplimo who died in a road crash. Governor Jackson Mandago and his Nandi counterpart Stephen Sang were present. The Kapseret MP told the multi-agency team to respect the sanctity of title deeds and stop flattening buildings constructed on parcels of land acquired through the correct procedures. “As elected leaders in the county, we shall not allow any of the buildings listed as unsafe to be flattened without our goodwill and support. He said they will not allow demolitions like those that “befell” owners in Nairobi. He faulted the state for “ambushing” owners of the structures with demolition notices, instead of giving them enough time. The National Environmental Management Authority (Nema) has defended the planned demolition of structures in Uasin Gishu county. The authority said buildings on their radar include those built along river Sosiani and on wetlands. In August, 10 structures were pulled down in Eldoret. They were said to be standing on a road reserve. Uasin Gishu Industrialisation executive Emily Kogos said the buildings will be pulled down. She said owners of the structures have been given notices for demolition. Buildings on road reserves are being demolished. The county plans to use Sh300 million for re-planning Eldoret to position itself for city status. Former Uasin Gishu governor aspirant Bundotich Kiprop, popularly known as Buzeki, has opposed demolitions in Nairobi and elsewhere. He said the government should negotiate with owners to come up with amicable solutions, instead of ruining investments. The businessman said government officials approved some of the buildings and destruction would not be the best way to solve the problem. He said those who approved the buildings should be punished.