Football Kenya Federation has welcomed CAF’s decision to uphold their appeal against Equatorial Guinea which guarantees Harambee Starlets a second stab at the Africa Women’s Cup of Nations next month. FKF president said: “This is a good day for Kenya and it shows that when you work hard on something, there must be a reward, success. I would like to tank Starlets for their efforts and everybody else who worked with us.” And despite the short time between now and the finals set for between November 17 and December 1, Mwendwa observed: "That will not be a problem. We will work on it. This comes at a time when even the men’s team, Harambee Stars, is destined for the same tournament and hopefully the World Cup." Starlets had lost 3-2 on aggregate to the West Africa Nation in the final qualifying round, but FKF lodged a complaint over the eligibility of six players who played a part in the qualifier. "On the 9th of June 2018, Kenya submitted an official protest before Match no. 30, Equatorial Guinea vs. Kenya which was played in the frame of Total Women’s Africa Cup of Nations – Ghana 2018," Caf said in a letter. "In their initial letter, Kenya was protesting the eligibility of 6 (six) players, however, they only maintained their protest regarding one player: Anette Jacky Messomo. The player in question was allegedly of Cameroonian nationality and had played for several European based clubs," read part of the letter sent to FKF General Secretary/CEO Robert Muthomi following a CAF Disciplinary Board hearing at the CAF Headquarters in Cairo, Egypt. "Considering CAF Statutes; CAF Regulations, in particular the Regulations of the Women AFCON 2018; and the CAF Disciplinary Code, the Disciplinary Board decides that Kenya’s protest is upheld; a sanction of 10, 0000 USD (Ten Thousand Dollars) is imposed on the Equatorial Guinea FA; and Equatorial Guinea’s Team is disqualified from the Total African Women’s Cup of Nations 2018," continued the letter. Starlets will be making a second appearance at the competition following their maiden bow in 2016. Click here for the latest political news