Apathy — Indifference — won the Migori Senate by-election by a huge margin. A week later, no one has acknowledged the invincible contestant. The Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission has not explained the superlative performance of Apathy. Not even the contestants have recognised citizen apathy. Senator-elect Ochillo Ayacko and rival Eddy Okech were the human faces in the contest, but General Apathy was strong, stoic, and sturdy. Migori county has 380,000 registered voters, with a peak of 500,000 in a population of about 1,000,000. About 120,000 people did not register as voters. They are victims of apathy. During the by-election to replace the late Ben Oluoch Okelo, only 145,000 voted. They went to the 800 polling stations in the eight constituencies, in drips and drabs. Some had to be persuaded or forced to vote. About 235,000 voters absconded. Only 38 per cent of registered voters cast their ballots. About 62 per cent decided the repeat election was a nullity. The minority decided for the majority. The decision stands because you cannot force people to the ballot, in defiance of infectious apathy. But why did 235,000 of 380,000 boycott the by-election? Monday, October 8 was a working day. Some voters, in formal employment and jua kali, decided their livelihoods were more important. But this does not explain the massive influence of apathy. About five per cent of the voter register may have died or shifted, but again this cannot explain the indifference of the majority. There must be other excuses for absconding. The excuses and reasons are political. Some excuses are absurd. Some reasons are dumb. But all are inseparable allies of General Apathy — the constant saboteur of democracy. There was a balance of anger months before the by-election. Double anger influenced the outcome. The angers had propagated and taken on criminal hues during the county’s dark September. The angers created a huge opportunity for apathy to double its victims. Anger One: There were those who claimed ODM had imposed a candidate on the electorate. These people wanted public participation in party primaries. Detained governor Okoth Obado was the prominent persona behind this anger. Those who shared the anger boycotted. The dominant party had made its pick. Its candidate would win anyway, even without their vote. This came to pass after ODM sent a contingent of elected leaders to drum up support for its candidate. Anger Two: The owners of anger two, which did not have a leader, thrived on propaganda and sycophancy to a political godhead. But this anger could not push apathy to victory without the collusion of anger one. Anger Two fed on Obado’s incarceration. He is accused of murdering seven-months pregnant university student Sharon Otieno. Obado and his alleged accomplices, all county employees, have been denied bail. When his bail hearing was set for October 8, the day of the by-election, Obado diehards found a leg for propaganda. They claimed some deep forces wanted him away until after the by-election. Obado is the first suspect in the murder. The court has noticed an agency relationship. Releasing the governor on bail means releasing other suspects when investigations are still on. The ‘sycos’ claimed ODM leader Raila Odinga had abandoned Obado during his ‘hour of need’. That the former PM had declined to help Obado the way ‘others’ were saved from dangerous situations. But ‘helping’ Obado would make the benefactor an accessory to impunity. When the Obado matter exploded, it was past the threshold of ‘help’. It was too late for advice on where to buy condoms to prevent an unwanted pregnancy. Obado had spited ODM long before his hour of need. He had money and power. He was the reigning cock. There are lessons from the Obado conundrum. There is also a lesson for those who energise apathy. Lesson one: Parties should allow the electorate to participate in their primaries to energise voter turnout. Let the people own the candidate. Lesson two: You need a strategy, even when you have money, power and turf. You do not destroy the ladder. You may need it on your way down.