The findings of a national survey on the right to protest shows that Kenyans see protest as a form of expression more than they consider it a manifestation of the right to assembly. The survey was contracted by freedom of expression organisation Article 19 Eastern Africa to Ipsos. Even as this is the most prominent conclusion from the survey from a freedom of expression perspective, there are other findings that point to the delegitimisation of the right to protest due to its inherent disruption to normalcy. A protest is any action or inaction to show objection or disapproval to something. Delegitimising protests alludes to arguing that though the right to assembly is constitutionally guaranteed, it can be infringed upon subtly and blatantly since it’s simply a disruption to normalcy. It is this thought that informed the ban on protests in Nairobi and Kisumu in October and November last year. Curiously, there was no ban on demonstrations aligned with the Interior CS’s political affiliation. The most prominent features of demos in Kenya over the years has been the brutality and force meted on protesters. As such, discouragingly, many Kenyans have come to perceive protests as opportunities for looting and harm as opposed to communicating their concerns. There is proof of this from the findings of the survey. Forty-five per cent of respondents felt that there is need to protect people and their property during protests. Similarly, 40 per cent of the times, respondents stated that they felt that there is a need to protect those participating in protests. Since the survey was conducted between July and August, it can be taken that the respondents’ answers were hugely based on Kenyans’ experience with protests during the 2017 general election. These findings demonstrate a perception that those participating in protests either cause harm to people and property, or are at risk of being harmed by those opposed to the protests. The delegitimisation of people’s right to assembly has several negative implications. First, it creates room for the violation of other rights associated with the right to assembly. The Kenya National Commission on Human Rights (KNCHR) approximated the number of people who were killed in the course of protests in last year’s elections at 97. Secondly, it furthers human rights violations. More than a year after the elections, none of the perpetrators of harm and violence in any part of the country has been brought to book. Though the inquest into Baby Pendo’s murder has been a step in the right direction, we are still far from securing justice for her killing and the many others. The Constitution, and by extension international and regional standards which Kenya is a signatory to, obligate state and non-state actors to respect human rights. The right to peacefully assemble and demonstrate is crucial in a democracy and should not be curtailed unlawfully. During protests the targeted authorities should avail themselves and give audience to the aggrieved parties. It might not be that the matter will be addressed at that time, but the concerns should be noted and pro-actively resolved. Article 19 Eastern Africa recorded 87 protests between January 1 and September 26, 2018. Our projection is that by the end of the year, there will be approximately 140 recorded protests. With the foregoing, it is important for the country to reflect on not just how to relegitimise protests, but how to protect and promote protests in a human rights compliant manner. First, there’s need for further sensitisation of our law enforcement officers on how to manage protests in a manner that upholds human rights. The police have a role to offer protection to protesters from those who might harm them. They are not meant to attack protesters and journalists covering the protests as is often the case. On the other hand, citizens need to be informed that the right to assembly is only permitted if it is peaceful and those participating are unarmed.   Programme assistant, Article 19 Eastern Africa, churchill@article19.org 