Politicians plotting to block Deputy President William Ruto from getting to State House by changing the Constitution through a referendum are daydreaming, Kikuyu MP Kimani Ichung’wa said yesterday. The MP told the detractors he did name to “please get the news that William Ruto is unstoppable because of the faith he has in God and the love and the vision he has for the country.” Ichung’wa said Ruto and President Uhuru Kenyatta promised to unite Kenyans, engineer change and transform lives for a united, cohesive nation. He said that dream has not been discarded and he together with like-minded politicians will back Ruto to the end. Meanwhile, Kiambu leaders on Sunday traded accusations during a function attended by the DP over the eviction of more than 3,000 people to pave way for the construction of Githurai market. Nominated senator Isaac Mwaura fired the first salvo at Kiambu governor Ferdinand Waititu accusing him of treating the traders in an inhumane manner. About 3,000 traders woke to a rude shock on Thursday to find their stalls demolished by the county government. During yesterday’s event at the Ruiru PCEA church organized by area MP Simon King’ara, Kiambu county assembly speaker Steve Ndichu told politicians to stop inciting the public over the market project which he said was spearheaded by the President himself as a fulfillment Jubilee campaign pledges. "If you want to know about the project ask the President himself since it is his brainchild," Ndichu said in response to Mwaura’s claims. King’ara appealed to leaders to discuss the matter as a team and find a solution. Deputy governor James Nyoro called on leaders not to wash their dirty linen in public and especially in the presence of the Deputy President. "There are six days before Sunday. Let’s sit down and reason together," he added. Waititu said the county government has not evicted anyone but called on the traders to be ready to create room for the contractor to commence work on the Sh2.7 billion market. "The market has been in a dilapidated state for too long now. The President ordered me two months ago to ensure that the project commences and he is expected to launch it before November 16. He also ordered me to ensure I put up a mega bus station in Githurai," the governor said. "People must allow us to complete that project." Read: Keep talking, I’m walking to State House, says Ruto I will not engage in theatrics. Mine is to work as ordered by Kiambu people. Am fearless and very stubborn. I will not be distracted bycalled on the traders to be ready to create room for the contractor to commence work on the Sh2.7 billion market. “The market has been in a dilapidated state for too long now. The President ordered me two months ago to ensure that the project commences and he is expected to launch it before November 16. He also ordered me to ensure I put up a mega bus station in Githurai,” the governor said. "People must allow us to complete that project. I will not engage in theatrics. Mine is to work as ordered by Kiambu people. Am fearless and very stubborn. I will not be distracted by anyone. I know that project is a life wire but nothing will deter me from transforming Kiambu," Waititu said. He blamed the politics behind the market on cartels that have been renting space. The Deputy President said the project was a promise of the Jubilee government. "During campaigns, we stopped at Githurai three times where we promised two things: to build a market there and supply water to all Githurai residents. I urge Githurai residents to be calm and to kindly allow us time to complete the project which will be of good use to more than 3,000 traders once complete," he said. Click here for the latest political news