Kenya Open champion Angela Okutoyi will play at the prestigious Junior Orange Bowl tennis championships in Florida, USA in December. Okutoyi received the invite after winning the Kenya Open crown, where she upset three-time champion Shufaa Changawa 6-1, 7-6 in the final. Okutoyi has been in dominant form recently, winning won gold in the ITF/CAT Africa Junior Championships which took place in Algiers in August. Okutoyi, who got into the tournament seeded first, beat 5th seed and home favourite, Algerian Bouchra Mebarki 4-6 6-0 6-1 to clinch the title. Okutoyi also won the ITF Under-18 tournament in Burundi in June, which saw her join the ITF World Tour team that enabled her tour France, Germany, Belgium and Czech Republic for five weeks between July and August. Apart from the Orange Bowl, Changawa is set to play at the Eddie Herr international Championships from November 26 to December 2 at the famous Nick Bollettieri Academy and at the same time attend two training camps in Florida with the first one set for November 22-25 and the second December 3-11. The Junior Orange bowl tournament kicks off on December 12-18. Before travelling to the United States, Okutoyi is slated to play at the Nigerian Futures tournament slated for Abuja mid this month. Tennis Kenya vice chairman, Francis Mutuku expressed delight with Okutoyi being selected for the event. “This great opportunity for her to play in such a huge tournament and meet some of the best tennis players worldwide. The training camps will give her valuable experience from some of the best tennis coaches at the academy,” added Mutuku. He described Okutoyi as one of the rising stars in the country despite her young age of 14. “She has a great career ahead of her and we at the federation want to give her the best possible exposure to aid her development,” added Mutuku. The Orange bowl tennis has produce some of the biggest tennis players in the last 30 years including legends Roger Federer, Bjorn Borg, Boris Becker, Ivan Lendl, Steffi Graff and Monica Seles amongst others.