The Kakamega government will meet the cost of funeral arrangements for the victims of Wednesday’s Kericho bus crash. Governor Wycliffe Oparanya announced this after visiting the survivors of the Kakamega-bound Homeboyz bus at the Kericho County Referral Hospital on Thursday. He was accompanied by his Kericho counterpart Paul Chepkwony who said the bills accumulated by survivors will be waived. Oparanya and Chepkwony said the compassion and solidarity with which the people of Kericho responded to the tragic incident positively reflected the spirit of the Lake Region Economic Bloc. The crash claimed at least 58 people and survivors are admitted in various hospitals. Some of the victims blamed speeding and overloading for the accident. The owner of the bus company Cleophas Shimanyula and his co-director Bernard Shitiabayi were arraigned before a Molo law court on Thursday charged with manslaughter. They did not take plea. One family in Navakholo constituency lost five members while another in Shunyalu lost three. The family members were travelling home to bury their kinsmen. “The county government will meet funeral expenses as well as make arrangements for a joint funeral service with families of victims,” Oparanya said through his director of communication Dick Rayori. Yesterday, Rayori said the governor formed a seven-member committee to oversee the arrangements for the burial of the accident victims. The committee members are Health executive Rachael Okumu, county secretary Jacinda Odhiambo, Rayori, his deputy Sumba Juma, head of enforcement Jonathan Kisaka and a senior administrator in the department of public service and administration Wilson Yaola. The committee will be responsible for arrangements for preservation of the bodies, flow of information about arrangements to affected families and the joint mass. Rayori said the committee will set up an information centre to ensure free flow of information and contact with the bereaved families. He said 38 bodies had so far been identified positively. Twenty-three bodies were moved from Kericho to Kakamega on Thursday evening while 15 more were set to be moved on Friday. He said the committee will work with the national government.    