Pension schemes are reluctant to invest in infrastructure as part of  diversification fearing the resultant risks could impact on their returns, a sector symposium was told yesterday. Under their newly-formed umbrella body, the Kenya Pension Fund Investment Consortium, the schemes pointed out cost overruns, delays and political influence as part of their concerns. “We are very conscious of this concerns, and we are engaging with the government and other stakeholders to help remove or reduce some of these risks,” Zamara group CEO Sundeep Raichura told the forum yesterday. The informal consortium set up in September brings together public and
private sector pension funds.t currently has 12 members with a total asset base of Sh204
billion. It is reaching out to ore members and plans to formalise the association through a memorandum of understanding amongst members. To deal with the potent risks in the construction sector, the consortium is considering a case by case approach to investing, or setting up a fully resourced consortium having the necessary technical and financial expertise. They are also considering jointly hiring an infrastructure investment manager to help in their projects of choice. Raichura said that schemes must recognise that there is always a risk return trade off in investment. “We need to very clear on the type of assets the consortium would consider, the exposure we are willing to take, our appetite for risk and our expectation of returns," he said. The consortium was formed to invest in alternative investment asset classes including affordable housing, private equity, energy and infrastructure projects. Raichura said it is challenging for pension funds to invest in the alternative asset classes individually. According to the actuaries schemes' quarterly survey ending June 2018, 93 per cent of pension schemes invest more in fixed income securities and equities. “Having 40 per cent of aggregate assets in government securities and the top ten equity holdings of most pension funds representing 90 per cent of their equity holding does not offer much diversification as pension assets grow,” Raichura said. The World Bank has offered to provide technical assistance and a consultant for the consortium to put together a working structure. Raichura said talks between the consortium and World Bank are underway to consider construction of the Nairobi-Nakuru-Mau Summit Highway — that is being supported by guarantees from the Bank. While he did not disclose the cost of the project, estimates have put the cost for the toll road project at Sh200 billion. According to the World Bank  infrastructure needs in Kenya amount to about Sh 00 billion per year, creating an opportunity for long-term institutional investors, particularly pension schemes.