Wetlands
are disappearing three times faster than forests, says UN. Wetlands
cover around four to six per cent of the world’s surface and
support ecosystems and biodiversity. Plants
in swamps absorb pollutants, mangroves store carbon, lakes and
underground aquifers are a crucial source of water, and coral reefs
protect coastlines from wave action and serve as shelter for marine
organisms. According
to the International Fund for Agricultural Development, natural
wetlands have been declining three times faster than forests, while
human-made wetlands, largely rice paddy and reservoirs have doubled
between 1970 and 2015. In a report released on Friday, at least 64
percent of wetlands have been lost since 1900. The
National Environment Management Authority refers to a riparian area
as land bordering any natural channel or depression in which water
flows regularly such as the banks of rivers and streams. In
March 2011, NEMA issued a notice to those encroaching wetlands and
adjacent riparian land to vacate, and come June, 2018, the government
earmarked about 4,000 buildings, structures and facilities sitting on
riparian land for demolition. “Human
induced factors are behind wetland's disappearance trend with
agriculture accounting for 65 percent of the total water withdrawal
globally. Other factors include industries and rising sea levels. The
decline of wetlands poses threat to biodiversity and livelihoods and
may animals species also depend on them,” the report read. According
to statistics, 81 percent of inland wetland species and 36 percent of
coastal and marine species have declined since 1970. Fish, water
birds and turtles are especially at risk with a quarter of the
population a threat of extinction. The
report further stated that increasing pollution and land overuse
affect wetlands water quality significantly. This has a great impact
to the livelihoods of those living near the wetlands. “Untreated
wastewater, industrial waste, agricultural runoff and erosion can
severely compromise the water by escalating the levels of nitrogen,
phosphorous, salinity and faecal coliform bacteria. Since the 1990s,
water pollution has worsened in almost all rives in Africa , Asia and
Latin America,” the report stated. 