Nyaribari Masaba MP Ezekiel Machogu has accused the Education ministry and the examination council of wrongly profiling Kisii county among cheating hotspots. Machogu has written a protest letter to Education Cabinet Secretary Amina Mohamed demanding an apology from the ministry and Kenya National Examination Council officials. Kisii was among regions named under the government’s watch over exam cheating. Others are Wajir, Meru, West Pokot, Garissa and Kiambu. Knec said they had information some principals were planning to help candidates cheat in KCSE and KCPE exams. The council is investigating 30 schools across the country over cheating concerns. Four of the schools are in Kisii, Knec chairman George Magoha said. “In the recent past there have been some reckless utterances from your senior officers to the effect that Kisii is a hotspot for exam cheating,” Machogu told Amina. He challenged Magoha to name the schools. The MP said national exams should be protected for credibility but called for exhaustive investigations before reports are made public. “Without any objective investigation, the reports amount to profiling innocent students, teachers, parents and the entire community. This leads to unnecessary fear, anxiety and panic which may affect overall performance,” Machogu said. He said claims made by Education PS Belio Kipsang and Magoha that Kisii was being investigated was an affront to the Gusii community. Machogu said the officers should desist from targeting the community. He demanded an apology from Kipsang and Magoha. The MP said he will raise the issue in Parliament next week. Kenya National Union of Teachers chairman for Kisii county Laban Bosire said naming of the region as a cheating hotspot is discriminative and abusive to teachers, parents and students. “Knec is unfairly subjecting the students, invigilators, supervisors and center managers to unnecessary focus,” Bosire said in a statement. Magoha said some principals were keen on influencing the choice of supervisors and invigilators to coordinate cheating. “There are schools said to have favourable supervisors who will dance to their tune. Two school heads in Garissa have been implicated and we are investigating them,” Magoha said last week. A total of 1.6 million candidates have registered for this year’s national exams. Of this, 964,119 candidates will sit KCPE exam and 631,750 KCSE exam. KCPE exam begins on October 30 and ends on November 1 while KCSE exam starts on November 6 and runs until November 30. The exams will be done across 27,172 centres. Magoha said among schools on the council’s watch list were top boys’ and girls’ national schools, county schools and day schools. The council warned students against peddlers of fake examination papers. The papers were being sold at Sh30,000 per subject, a field coordinator said.