City Hall is proposing to swap property to pay off debtors and reduce Sh66 billion pending bills. County assembly Finance and Budget committee chairman Robert Mbatia said debt swapping is the easiest way to handle huge debts. Mbatia told the assembly that City Hall is talking with creditors about debt swaps. “Negotiations are ongoing and a report will be shared on the agreement arrived at,” Mbatia said in a statement in the assembly on Thursday last week . Early this month, Woodley MCA Mwangi Njhia asked Mbatia for a report on the bank accounts of the Nairobi county government. Njihia asked for details on pending bills, measures to offset the pending bills and the Ward Development Fund payment status. In order to reduce pending bills, the Nairobi county government and the national government are developing the Nairobi county financial recovery plan. The plan will be part of the Nairobi debt management strategy paper 2019. At the end of the financial year on June 30, Nairobi owed about Sh66 billion, exactly Sh66, 576,014,140.36. To settle Sh10 billion owed to Laptrust, City Hall has revived talks on a property swap involving a prime estate. The properties proposed and valued by the government valuer include Sunken Car Park, Kariokor and Buruburu estates. For the Lapfund, the county aims to regularise the earlier transfer of Mariakani Estate ( LR/209/6612 IR No. 20935/1 ) to settle the Sh13 billion debt. However, the county says that any outstanding balance will be addressed by collaborating with Lapfund in the Urban Renewal project. Currently, the county is negotiating debt swaps worth Sh424 million with the National Social Security Fund. City Hall is also verifying meters with Kenya Power to confirm previous bills owed to Kenya Power. On September 24, Kenya Power had sent a demand letter to City Hall for Sh950 million debt. However, early this month, City Hall said the power distributor owed it Sh374 million after deducting an initial fee of Sh30 million. In June 2018, City Hall and the adjacent City Hall Annex used generators for two consecutive days after Kenya Power cut supply over a Sh732 million bill. Nairobi has been at loggerheads with the utility firm since 2014. In 2016, Kenya Power disconnected electricity to City Hall, which then obtained a court order blocking the company from disconnecting electricity its facilities until the case was determined. Earlier, the company threatened to disconnect power at the City Hall Annex, Pumwani and Mama Lucy Hospitals and public primary and nursery schools. It also threatened to turn off street lights. In the same period, Kenya Power sought court protection after the county threatened to clamp and impound the utility’s vehicles over the unpaid debts. To avoid accumulating pending bills, City Hall has said it will not make new commitments for supply of goods and services after May 31 of each financial year.  