President Uhuru Kenyatta will today open this year’s International ASK Trade Fair at the Jamhuri Show Grounds. He will unveil a multipurpose expo hall that will transform the grounds into a modern destination for investors and an entertainment joint all-year round Batram Muthoka, ASK chief executive officer, said upon completion the multipurpose expo hall will be a 24-hour facility. “There will be a light commuter railway starting from the railway station to the show ground. The modern infrastructure will decongest the CBD. People will shop and get entertained in a serene environment away from the hustle and bustle of the city. We want to make it a city within a city,” he said yesterday at the ASK show. The event opened its doors to the public on Monday under the theme ‘Promoting innovations and technology’ and will close doors on Sunday. Muthoka said over 271 local and 56 international exhibitors are showcasing new innovations and technologies for the benefit of farmers. The seven-day trade fair has attracted exhibitors from China, Tanzania, Pakistan, Zambia, Israel, Egypt, Zimbabwe and India. Showgoers have been treated to various attractions from three broad sections of livestock and crop demonstration, manufacturers and service industry as well as international exhibitions. Here are some of the attractions that Kenyans will get to enjoy at the show: New maize variety Farmers from Central region will in the next planting season access a new maize variety. Kenya Seed Company is set to introduce a new highland variety that is resistant to the maize streak virus disease. Sammy Kiplagat, the Kenya Seed Company head of sales, said the new variety will come to the market early next year. “The 6219 variety is high yielding and has a potential of yielding 58 bags of 90kg per acre. The production is higher than 6218 maize variety that is currently in the market and produces 56 bags per acre,” he said. Kenya Seed is showcasing some of the latest maize, vegetables and pasture varieties at the ongoing Nairobi International Trade Fair. Kiplagat said dwindling land sizes, changing weather patterns and poor soils are making it increasingly difficult for farmers to not only maximize their yields but also produce crops of high quality. “We have been steadily increasing production of certified seeds that are suitable for all agro-ecological zones in Kenya and East Africa,” he said. Kiplagat said the usage of certified maize seeds in Kenya is currently at about 38-40 million kilos annually, with Kenya Seed controlling 80 per cent of the market. Robert Musyoki, from Simlaw Seeds, said farmers will also be able to access a new tomato variety known as Nyota F1 which is tolerant to bacterial wilt. “We have also developed a new capsicum variety which is high yielding, produces medium to large fruits, is drought tolerant and matures early,” Musyoki said. Biodegradable bags for seedlings A company from Murang’a county is showcasing new biodegradable materials used to pot tissue culture banana seedlings at the ongoing Nairobi Trade Fair. According to Godfrey Ndirangu, Agribase Consultants managing director, the biodegradable material disappears after a year once the plant roots has developed and ready to be transplanted. The biodegradable bags are made from clothing materials and this, he said, is good for protecting the environment. Jonathan Muriuki, an agroforestry expert, said seedlings produced in biodegradable bags establish more strongly once planted on the farm. “Polythene seedling tubes restrict the growth and aeration of roots in the nursery. When removed from the plastic and transplanted into the soil, the roots, which may have coiled in the bag, take longer to anchor into the ground. This might explain the lower vigor seedlings suffer when they are transplanted from these bags,” he explained. Muriuki said unlike polythene, biodegradable bags promote better drainage and aeration, which helps normal root development in the nursery. He added that the biodegradable bags do not have to be cut away from the roots when seedlings are being transplanted. “This ensures that the root system remains undisturbed thus reducing the risk of transplant shock to the tree seedling,” said Muriuki. According to the World Agroforestry Centre, tree seedlings grown in biodegradable bags establish with more vigour upon transplanting. In August 2017, the National Environmental Management Authority banned the use of plastic bags in the country. Nema has since encouraged Kenyans to come up with alternative ecofriendly biodegradable materials. BioLite Home Stove The energy-saving jiko is one of the attractions at the show and cost Sh7, 500. Peter Githaiga, the sales and marketing officer at BioLite Holdings, said the jiko can cook, provide light and also charge a phone. “It is made of stainless and well insulated handles. The top and base are made of a strong metal which is well insurated to make it retain heat. It is also fitted with a thermo-electrical generator that converts heat energy to electricity,” he said. It has does not produce any soot, makes cooking easier and saves up to 50 percent of fuel or less. He said once can use firewood, maize cobs or dry cowdung as a source of heat. The stove costs Sh7, 500 and comes with a one year warrant. He said one can cook while charging their phone. The jiko comes with a flexible light and and several cables for charging. It can boil one kilo of beans in one hour or five litres of water in 15 minutes. Solar powered irrigation pump Joseph Irungu, sales assistant Future Pump says the solar pump comes with two 40W solar panels, pump, six meters suction hosepipe and a toolbox at a cost of Sh70,000. “It is portable, has a charging socket for phones and can pump water up to 500m across flat land. The solar pump can pump 2,500 litres of water in one hour,” he said.