Aren’t such
saboteurs an exception? The norm is that such deals are wholly embraced,
celebrated and implemented for the benefit of the affected countries. Paradoxically,
in Kenya, Deputy President William Ruto has driven everybody into a funny spin.
He has castigated the March 9 handshake between the People’s President Raila
Odinga and President Uhuru Kenyatta plus the resultant Building the Bridges
Initiative wrongly demonising it as a vessel for dirty politics. Ruto, just like
all Kenyans, knows that the current founding political matrix in the country is
a direct result of a bitter political fallout caused by the messy 2017 General Election.
The elections, especially the presidential one whose Supreme Court ordered a repeat,
was boycotted by the opposition, drove the country to the edge; virtually
threatening to drown the country into a volatile and unbearable ethnic, social
and political disintegration. Kenyans know too
well the ruin mismanagement of the politics and governance of some countries
have done to their social fabric and economies. The resultant upheavals,
breakdown of law and order, military cum political chaos and all-consuming
humanitarian crises have horrified the world. Sober Kenyans
shudder to imagine the country degenerating into the Somalia, Sierra Leone,
Liberia, DRC, Afghanistan and Syria way. Yet the 2013-17 governance had herded
the country into that direction. The regrettable
political standoff was a consequent of inexplicable and emotive issues like bad
governance, runaway corruption in government and raw tribal apartheid (Mt
Kenya-Rift Valley duo-poly) anchored on open sabotage of the 2010 Constitution
by the then ruling URP-TNA regime before they morphed into Jubilee Party for 2017
election purposes. The then URP-TNA
regime had virtually copy pasted, perfected and repeated the governance crimes
of the first Mwai Kibaki regime that gave birth to the shameful 2007-08 Post
Election Violence that soiled Kenya’s image and respect within the community of
nations. To date, PEV remains the biggest stain on Kenya’s life as a free nation,
such that whenever it rears its ugly head again, it is everybody’s patriotic
duty to scramble to ward it off. It is
universally acknowledged that the reaching out to each other by the two
principals (Uhuru for government and Raila for opposition) and the crafting of
the BBI was an exemplification of their patriotism and statesmanship. They rose
to the occasion to save the country from a hitherto looming hellhole. For DP William
Ruto to erupt in anger and rubbish the handshake and go personal against the
person of Raila to castigate and demonise him for his role in crafting and
rolling out the handshake and BBI, the whole country is treated to a political mischief
of shocking proportions. Logically if
Ruto is bitter at the handshake and one party in it, then automatically he is
bitter with his own boss President Uhuru who played an equal or even bigger
role in formulating and operationalising it. Hence what he craftily dismisses
as conman-ship includes his boss Uhuru’s role. In simpler words, he has branded
both government and opposition principals (Uhuru and Raila respectively) as
being conmen for coming up with the handshake and pacifying the country. What a
wild manner to rebel! For his endless
claims to being a saved Christian, Ruto should be knowing from the Bible that
even God himself hates rebellion, which in his realm was manifested through
disobedience and undermining him. He knows what happened to Lucifer, Adam,
Lot’s wife, the Children of Israel while in the wilderness and many others. For
his own (DP’s) open disobedience of and sabotage of President Uhuru’s current
most important pet project - BBI (handshake) and Kenyans’ most reassuring
national revival political pursuit - what does he expect? Ironically, the
handshake and the Building the Bridges Initiative fall squarely within the
President’s constitutional mandate of ever standing out as a symbol of national
unity and requirement to ever be pursuing all measures to harness and propagate
national Unity and peaceful co-existence among Kenyans. Ruto’s
contradictory stance is thus a clear case of sabotaging the Constitution. It’s
a violation of the same Constitution he swore to uphold and protect when
assuming office. The same constitution condemns  those who violate their terms of public
office, those who subvert the Constitution and those who obstruct execution of
legitimate authority. Does the DP need reminders? Ruto’s disturbing
trajectory reveals he is rattled by efforts by Raila and Uhuru to address the
constitutional, political , economic and administrative loopholes prevalent in
the country today which have in the past anchored rogue politics, bad
governance, massive corruption and state capture which have derailed Kenya’s
best laid down plans for socio-economic transformation. By this dare-devil
anti-“national reconciliation and revival” crusade, Ruto comes out as a
proponent of political demagoguery. He wants the country to be left in the
current political mess to gradually get overrun by crooks and demagogues to end
up like Adolf Hitler’s Germany, Benitto Musolinni’s Italy, Duvalier’s Haiti,
Augusto Pinochet’s Argentina or Foday Sanko’s Sierra Leone. Should mother Kenya
be surrendered to tin-pot-dictators?  THE
WRITER IS ODM NATIONAL TREASURER AND FORMER MP FOR KITUTU-MASABA