Melinda Auma, the mother of slain Rongo University student Sharon Otieno, has urged the court to deny Migori governor Okoth obado bail until the murder trial is expedited. In an affidavit, Auma asks the court to balance the request for bail against the greater public interest to find her daughters and unborn child killers and to determine that the grant of bail will undermine the latter. She wants the court to find that there are compelling reasons to deny the accused persons bail because she believes that three conspired and played a central role in the murder of her daughter. "I pray that everyone linked to the murder of my daughter Sharon and her unborn child remain in custody even as the trial is expedited," she says. Melida says they are living under mortal fear following the murder of her daughter adding that the thought that Obado will be freed during trial is chilling. She says Obado, being the governor, wields immense influence and she fears that his release, more so when three other suspects are still at large, will pose a high risk of interference with witnesses and evidence. "This will render vain the efforts being made by the DCI and the DPP to bring those who murdered my daughter to justice," her affidavit reads in part. Obado had on September 25 made an application for bail pending trial. Two days later, Justice Jessie Lessit disallowed his application for reasons that the prosecution had not supplied all the parties with witness statements and the evidence. The court held that only after the committal bundles and other evidence was supplied could it fully exercise its discretion and apply factors for consideration of the bail. Obado has since renewed his application for bail citing health grounds. He says that parties were supplied with the Committal Bundle on October 3, 2018 and  is now at liberty to make the bail application afresh. Their bail application will now be heard on Friday. Read: Obado, PAs murder cases consolidated, bail hearing on Friday Click here for the latest political news   