Kenyans suffering from cancer, diabetes and heart disease have long had to go overseas, especially to India, for specialised treatment. But now such burdens are set to drastically reduce, following the installation of advanced body-scanning technology at county hospitals. The project, a
national government initiative under the Universal Health Coverage (UHC), seeks
to cover 37 counties. The 10 counties being left out are considered to be
geographically too close to a hospital in the neighbouring county being fitted
with the modern imaging machines. Four hospitals
have already been fitted with the modern equipment: Iten Referral Hospital, Voi
Level 5 Hospital, Thika Level 5 Hospital and Narok County Referral Hospital.
President Uhuru Kenyatta is expected to open another facility at the Kakamega
County Referral Hospital during Mashujaa Day celebrations on Saturday. The
government, under its Universal Health Coverage programme, is seeking to take
specialised medical services to the grassroots, saving residents the hustle of
travelling either to Nairobi or flying out of the country. The plan is
mainly to revolutionise diagnosis of ailments, especially non-communicable
diseases (NCDs), such as cancer, at the earliest stage possible, and have modern
system of saving a patients’ data for easier follow-up and medication. The CT Scan
centres have fully trained radiographers and radiologists and an all-time
functional training centre. Currently, in
most hospitals across the country, patients are referred to radiologists with
images for interpretation and reporting. Patients then go back to the
hospital with results for treatment. This has been
time-consuming, expensive and tedious. BETTER THAN X-RAY Under the CT
Scan being rolled out, patients will be attended to through special X-ray tests
that produce cross-sectional images of the body and MRI using X-rays and a
computer. The generated
images are of higher resolution, which assists the doctor in making a
diagnosis. With the CT Scan, doctors are able to visualise small nodules or
tumours, which they cannot see with a plain film X-ray. If a patient
has a condition like cancer, heart disease, or liver masses, CT Scans can spot
it early enough or help doctors see any changes. The technology
also shows internal injuries and bleeding, such as those caused by a car
accident, which ordinarily may not be seen via traditional X-ray. With the new
system, instead of travelling many kilometres to KNH, or in some cases flying
out of the country, patients will now be attended to at select local hospitals
through the specialised machines that are currently being installed. The images
obtained after the scan will then be relayed in real time to a command centre
manned by specialists at KNH. With the new
technology, a hospital for instance in Voi will be able to do CT scans and
X-rays and send them to a radiologist remotely in Nairobi. The doctor in
the county hospital who is with the patient will then get immediate feedback,
in this case expert diagnosis from the relayed images. Where doctors
at KNH need a second expert opinion on a certain medical condition, the images
will be relayed to another centre, now in India, that will have specialist
doctors. All this will
be done in real time, with the doctor and patient at the county hospital
getting the feedback within minutes. Additional
support from off-site health experts is set to enable earlier diagnosis and
quicker care, especially for NCDs, such as cancer and diabetes. Doctors and
nurses will have access to the relevant information they need to make
well-grounded recommendations for patients’ treatment and management, with no
need to refer a patient to another facility. HUNDREDS
HELPED For instance
in Kiambu, Health executive Joseph Murega says before the CT scan machine was
commissioned, at least 100 cases were being referred to KNH every month, which
translates to more than 1,200 cases annually. Thika Referral
Hospital deputy medical superintendent Dr Jacqueline Njoroge said over 600
patients have been scanned since the facility started operating. His Narok
counterpart Dr Grace Odhiambo said the facility has been experiencing difficulties
of having to refer to Nairobi patients who are involved in road accidents and
require CT scan. This has been resulting in additional expenses for the
patients, coupled with the inconveniences and hustles of travel. In Taita Taveta,
before the machines were installed, those in need of specialised treatment were
forced to seek such services in neighbouring Tanzania. For effective
operation, a training centre has been established in Nairobi, where
radiographers, radiologists and medical engineers are undergoing training on
how to use and maintain the CT scans. The supply and
installing is on government-to-government basis, between the Kenya Government
and China. The engineers
are trained on how to handle the CT scanners and other medical equipment. The training
also involves linking all the imaging machines so they can send images taken in
different county hospitals to one centre. Already the
training sessions have begun, with local medical engineers being joined by
their counterparts from Ethiopia, Uganda, Tanzania, Somalia, Zimbabwe, Cote
d’voire and Ghana. Besides
imaging services and storage of synchronised patients’ data records in all
facilities across the country, CT scan centres will also aid in early detection
of various forms of cancer and other chronic illnesses. FIGHTING NCDs The government
has already raised a red flag over the number of deaths and hospital admissions
due to non-communicable diseases. The Health ministry
in March said that 55 per cent of deaths and 50 per cent of hospital admissions
have been a result of non-communicable diseases (NCDs). Health CS
Sicily Kariuki said 25 per cent of the population was either on treatment or
unknowingly living with high blood pressure and other heart-related diseases. And, speaking
at a Nairobi hotel on Tuesday, National Assembly Health Committee chair Sabina
Chege said: “We have a lot of non-communicable diseases, and the reason they
are killing our people is because there is no prevention at the primary level.” She spoke
during a meeting on Domestic Resource Mobilisation for Health in Kenya. NCDs,
especially cancer, have seen many Kenyans leave the country for specialised
treatment abroad, financially draining families and the country in
general. The Health ministry,
in its Kenya National Cancer Control Strategy 2017-22, says the “economic
consequences of cancer are staggering”. But Megascope
Healthcare GM Renne Lupalo said Remote Radiologist Practice, or Teleradiology,
is the way to go to save Kenyans millions of shillings and time spent seeking
medical care abroad. “Teleradiology
improves patient care by allowing radiologists to provide their expertise
without being present with the patient,” he said. Just as mobile
payments have transformed Kenyan markets, tech-innovations in the health sector,
such as telemedicine, have potential to help strengthen the efficiency,
effectiveness and accountability of the health sector. This is according
to the Health ministry and the Global Fund, which jointly prepared the Kenya National
Health Financing Issue Paper September 2018. Tech-innovations,
they say, would encourage new financing for the sector to further contribute to
improved health status and quality of life in the country. They have also
noted that ICT solutions can help empower patients to actively engage in their
own care and, therefore, influence the health system. The two have pointed out
that elements of care can also be moved from hospitals to homes using connected
technology. “This can allow for remote support and tracking therapy adherence,”
noted the Health ministry and Global Fund.