People living along Waiyaki Way are planning to go to court to stop the expansion of the highway, alleging they have not been compensated. They made the declaration yesterday. On Monday they held a peaceful protest at Kenya National Highway Authority offices in Kikuyu town. Riot police with tear gas and dogs dispersed them, saying they were blocking the road. On Monday Kikuyu deputy county commissioner Paul Famba and police boss Musa Kongoli dispersed residents and arrested three men who were later released. They carried signs that said, “No compensation, no construction.” Ondoa Panya Movement coordinator John Wamagata condemned police for violating the permit they had issued. “How can you receive a notification of protest, then during the protest, you come with riot police armed with tear gas, guns, rungus, whips and dogs and disperse everyone, alleging they are blocking the road?” Wamagata asked. He said they were looking for options to ensure residents’ pleas are not only being heard, but they are compensated. Wamagata said they are seeking an audience with World Bank officials at Upper Hill, Nairobi, to present their case, before they go to court to stop construction. The road is being expanded by China Wu Yi company into six lanes on each side for Sh16.3 billion. It is running from James Gichuru Road in Nairobi to Rironi in Kiambu. They said the most affected traders operate from Uthiru, Kinoo, Gitaru, Kiambaa, Muguga and Rironi. They claim people whose houses are affected by a project funded by World Bank, are compensated before the work starts. “In our case, we were supposed to be compensated in December last year, but we have not been. We want to know what is happening and our houses are on the verge of being demolished and we remain poor,” Gitwere wa Gitwere said. “A lot of us will lose millions of shillings we have invested in the real estate. Some of our people’s property might be auctioned by banks owing to huge loans.” Nancy Wangare, 62, said tenants fled early last year, when they noticed Kenha marking houses for demolition. She said landlords have been counting losses. Kenha says the expansion will ease traffic flow into and out of the city,.