Hardly a week after the Fort Ternan accident that killed over 50, Corridors has learnt of the mess at the National Transport and Safety Authority's inspection unit. The inspection of vehicles is a big farce. All the owners have to do is to part with some amount and they are issued with inspection stickers. To drive the point home, our informer says many public service vehicles plying city roads do not have insurance, have faulty headlights or dented bodies. When are Transport and Interior CSs James Macharia and Fred Matiang'i coming back from leave? ***** A ministry official who represents his Cabinet Secretary on a parastatal board has applied for the job of general manager of a fund in the same agency. Insiders tell Corridors that the application by the man who is also the current acting GM will tilt the playing field against other applications. The parastatal is already making news for the wrong reasons as the PS has employed a nephew to the fund. ***** What's an immediate former MP from one of the constituencies in Nairobi's Eastlands area up to? The elections are not around the corner and there is no by-election in his constituency but the man has been spotted on several occasions hosting delegations of youth and women from the constituency. Asked what is his agenda, the former MP said that he simply enjoys having time with people and socialising. “You don’t have to be in bunge to host delegations,” he is quoted as saying. “These are just my friends whom we go out and just chart.” However, the delegations have been so large and some residents are wondering what the former MP is up to. ***** We told you about the panic that has gripped top Jubilee politicians following clearance by the courts to have Central Bank of Kenya issue new currency notes that will see the current legal tender in the market recalled or rendered useless. The politicians have been brainstorming what to do with the hard cash they’ve stashed away. On Monday, they seemed to have found a solution. They will split the currency in small units and dispatch their aides, relatives and hangers-on to go round forex bureaus and select banks across the country to change to dollars. Well, that’s just a plan and it remains to be seen if will it succeed. It was expected that the court ruling allowing CBK to print new denominations with new features would help wipe out dirty money from the country but it seems dodgy money launderers have it all figured out. They have also decided that payments for services and small expenses will be in cash. Click here for
the latest political news