Calls for a referendum to amend the Constitution has split Jubilee lawmakers, with Majority leader Aden Duale sharply disagreeing with Chief Whip Benjamin Washiali. Among the reasons to amend the Constitution is reduction in the number of MPs to cut the wage bill. Thirdway Alliance leader Ekuru Aukot said the number of MPs and senators should be reduced from 416 to 194. Opposition leader Raila Odinga said the referendum would be in line with his handshake with President Uhuru Kenyatta. Other possible reasons are introduction of a parliamentary-type system to end the winner-take-all system. Duale said Jubilee is against a referendum. “We had a referendum in 2010 when Kenyans proposed all these legislative positions. Somebody can’t wake up from his village and try to slash the number of legislators,” Duale told the Star on phone yesterday. But Washiali and nominated MP Maina Kamnda said the Constitution has created too many positions that have become difficult to fund. “That [a referendum] is the way to go if we want to get Kenya back on track. The truth is the Constitution is very expensive to fund,” Washiali said. “As the Leader of Majority in the National Assembly and the official spokesperson of the Jubilee Party in Parliament, I have no brief from my party leader, deputy or the secretary general on any minimum or maximum amendments,” Duale said. He was supported by Deputy Majority leader Jimmy Angwenyi. In the Senate, deputy speaker Kithure Kindiki said a referendum was crucial to shield Kenyans from heavy taxation to pay salaries. But Senate Majority leader Kipchumba Murkomen opposed the calls. “Those pushing to review the Constitution want to change the form of leadership to favour their political ambitions. Perennial losers should stop dragging us into reviewing the Constitution to suit them,” Murkomen said. Soin/Sigowet MP Kipsengeret Koros said the push was not in the best interest of the country. “This is just championed by a few power-hungry individuals. They are lying to Kenyans that we are overrepresented yet they only want to create government m positions in government for the big boys,” Kikuyu MP Kimani Ichungwa said. Supporting a plebiscite are MPs Patrick Mariru, Faith Gitau, Patrick Munene, Moses Kuria, Michael Muchira, Kinuthia Gachobe, Peter Kimari, Kimani Kuria and Joseph Tonui. Click here for the latest political news