Selling second-hand
clothes might not be a dream job for many graduates today. In fact, many view
it as a job for the uneducated. This, even as 50 per
cent of the jobless 1.4 million Kenyans who make up the country’s labour force
attribute their state of joblessness to few job opportunities in the market, as
reported in Brighter Monday’s Kenya Job Market Report 2017. One graduate who has
embraced mitumba is Grace Wambere, a Bachelor of Arts graduate in Information
Technology from the University of Frankfurt in Germany. Wambere, a mother of two,
has been selling mitumba clothes for the last five years. Pregnancy and unfair
competition from the IT industry pushed her to Gikomba market. The jobs report notes
that females in her age group make up to 49 per cent of job seekers, while 76
per cent of all employed job seekers want to exit their current job in search
for better pay. Unlike Wambere, who
chose the self-employment road, the report shows that only 14 per cent of
employed job seekers are willing to leave their current jobs to start their own
businesses. Having stayed in Germany
for eight years, the 34-year-old IT expert came back into the country in 2011.
She was determined to make it in the IT sector, but that was not the case. On arrival back in
Kenya, she opened a web and graphic design firm, worked for the firm for two
years but ended up closing shop. TURNING POINT “It’s a tricky business.
I used to spend money on doing samples for clients. At the end of it, they
would delay the pay or fail to pay for the final product, and I would be left
with no working capital.” She gave up on looking
for employment after a number of employers asked for sexual favours before
hiring her. Two years after the IT firm collapsed, Wambere fell pregnant, and with
it came the responsibility of buying clothes for her baby. Her friends suggested
Gikomba market, but having come from the village, she was too fearful to go
there. Instead, she opted to shop at the city centre. “It was too expensive to
purchase clothes from Biashara Street. A baby top would be sold at Sh400. My
budget would get up to Sh50,000 for just clothes. I was discouraged,” she said. Her love for mitumba
clothes grew with time. This is despite her father’s wish that she gets
employed at the United Nations. One day, on a Saturday morning, she decided to
brave up and visit Gikomba market, despite insecurity fears. She was shocked to
find baby tops, sweaters and even shorts going for as low as Sh10. She bought so many
clothes for only Sh2,000, both for herself and her unborn child. That marked
the beginning of her mitumba journey. FROM HAWKING TO E-SALES Weeks later, in 2014,
fellow expectant mothers and young mothers would compliment her taste for good
clothes. She took a bold step and every time she went to Gikomba, she would
come with extra clothes, wash, iron and later sell them. Due to increasing demand,
she would hawk the clothes in women merry-go-rounds, maternity mothers’ fairs,
baby shower parties, after church services and to friends. The business was
largely driven by referrals, and she moved from a few pieces of clothes to
purchasing bails. Fast-forward to today,
the business is largely driven by technology, in this case social media. Being
a technology-driven individual straight from Frankfurt, Wambere chose to use
online space to drive her business growth. She registered her first company,
Collection D’elegance, and opened a Facebook page for it. Three years later, the
page has given birth to three more Facebook pages and groups, all with a
combined following of 410,000 people. This is her online market. On the flipside, she has
four physical shops in Kenyatta University, Moi Avenue Nairobi, Moi Avenue
Mombasa and Jeevanjee Gardens. Her bail stock has also
increased from one a month to selling four to eight bails a week. This has made
her venture into both retail and wholesale business. She currently has 20
employees, up from zero in 2013. In addition, she imports
her own mitumba directly from six countries, which include Canada, United
Kingdom, Australia, China, Netherlands and United States of America. She is eyeing
Malaysia as her next stop. She attributes her strong desire to import after
understanding how the process works in Germany. SOCIAL MEDIA UPS, DOWNS Back there, they would
visit the big go-downs, where a kilogramme of clothes would cost Sh124. After
the go-downs cleared the stock, the remaining clothes would be exported to
different countries as bales. In a similar way, she
sells some of her best clothes during the first days of the week. On Fridays
and Saturdays, she sells the remaining clothes at Sh50 and Sh10 respectively.
That’s how she manages to stay afloat in the business. Plans and talks to ban mitumba
clothes do not scare her. She says such a move would be discouraging self-employment,
as not everyone can work in the formal sector. “I will deal with the
ban when that time comes. For now, I choose to focus on expanding the business
and creating employment,” Wambere says. Despite being her
largest market, Facebook has, however, not been kind to her. She has been
ridiculed and accused of being a conwoman, but this has not stopped her from
achieving her dreams. “One of my competitors
opened a pseudo account, went to a buyer-beware page and said I conned her. I
woke up to tens of messages from friends and family asking me what’s
happening,” Wambere said. She dealt with the issue
by giving no attention to those who were spreading fake information and asked
anyone with an official receipt to visit any of her shops to claim their money.
None showed up. Through the same
platform, Wambere recruits interested people who are ready to learn her
business and start their own. To date, she has trained over 10,000 people, both
online and offline. As a lesson learnt,
Wambere calls on young people to follow their path and do what they want and
not what other people feel is right for them. Besides running her
business, she helps in mentoring others and holding sales trainings at least
once in every two weeks.