The Kenya Institute of Curriculum Development has begun reviewing all educational materials ahead of the nationwide implementation of the Competency Based Curriculum (CBC) in January. The 2-6-3-3-3 curriculum will be launched up to the third grade following a successful pilot in grades 1 and 2 across 33,000 public and private schools since January this year. It will take 10 years to completely phase out the current 8-4-4 system. Director Julius Jwan said KICD has in the last one week been subjecting the textbooks to further quality assurance to ensure they meet required standards. "We regret information that has been circulating in the social media regarding the content of some text books and other educational materials. We appreciate the feedback so far received from Kenyans and will intensify measures to guarantee quality," Jwan said in a statement on Saturday. Kiswahili, English, Physics, Mathematics and Biology textbooks had been flagged as having errors soon after the launch of the distribution exercise by President Uhuru Kenyatta on January 5. Read: Book distribution to continue despite multiple errors, says PS More: House team seeks answers over textbook errors Related: KICD boss denies some textbooks are below standard On February 18, Juan allayed fears that the books do not meet standards but assured that evaluators from the institute were investigating the claims. "We don’t take anything for granted, especially when it comes to the curriculum and support materials," Jwan said. On Saturday, Juan urged publishers and booksellers to release only books that have received requisite approvals by the institute for circulation. School text books are approved after a careful evaluation and review by KICD officers, lecturers, quality assurance officers, teachers in primary and secondary schools, and tutors from teacher training colleges. Late last year, the ministry of Education changed the textbook distribution policy and started distributing the books directly to schools. The then CS Fred Matiang'i faulted the previous system where the government released capitation to schools for buying the books. He said some school heads were colluding with publishers to buy substandard books at inflated prices. In the current system, the ministry distributes core subject textbooks to every student and pupil in public schools. Secondary school students each receive English, Kiswahili, Mathematics, Physics, Biology and Chemistry books while while standard seven and 8 pupils receive for English, Kiswahili, Mathematics and Science. Through the new distribution policy, the government saved Sh13.82 billion by buying books directly from publishers down from Sh21 billion it used to spend under the capitation system. A total of 13 publishers won tenders to print and supply 6 million textbooks for one million students by the end of 2018. Six won tenders to print the core text books. These are Kenya Literature Bureau (KLB), Jomo Kenyatta Foundation, Longhorn, East African Education Publishers, Moran and Oxford. Read: Sell textbooks to private schools at fair prices, Uhuru directs publishers Also read: Education Ministry releases list of approved secondary schools setbooks Click here for the latest political stories