The rivalry between ODM leader Raila Odinga and Deputy President William Ruto is playing out in Monday’s Migori senator by-election. On Friday, Raila ended a two-day campaign for ODM candidate Ochillo Ayacko at Migori County Stadium, where most speakers criticised Ruto. Raila did not directly refer to Ruto in his address, but his lieutenants took a swipe at the DP and accused him of bankrolling Federal Party of Kenya candidate Eddy Oketch. Raila said calls for a referendum, which have gained momentum, are linked to the Building Bridges initiative. He said the calls are in line with his March 9 handshake with President Uhuru Kenyatta to bring peace and unity after the 2017 elections. “The referendum [is meant] to make the Constitution better and stronger and, most importantly, to safeguard the 2010 Constitution,” Raila said. He said the Building Bridges initiative team will collect views from all Kenyans on how best the Constitution should be changed. The former Prime Minister said constitutional change is one of the major issues the handshake will seek to address. “The Building Bridges initiative is the best forum to change the Constitution and usher a referendum, which will help safeguard the President’s legacy and chart the country in the right direction,” Raila said. Read: Raila and Ruto clash looms in Migori senator by-election He said the initiative will seek opinions on what can be added or removed to make the Constitution people-friendly. In a thinly veiled attack on Ruto, Raila said those opposing calls for a referendum should step aside and if they don’t want to, people will make sure they do. ODM chairman and Suba MP John Mbadi, Suna East MP Junet Mohamed and Rongo MP Paul Abuor said a referendum makes Ruto jittery and accused him of meddling in the by-election. “When we were passing the Constitution in 2010, Ruto was among people who said ‘No’ and were defeated in the referendum. He should prepare for the same,” Mbadi said. Junet said they will use the by-election to send a message to Ruto to stop meddling in Migori. Also See: Dalmas bows out of Migori senator race, boost for Ayacko Click here for the latest political news