The anti-corruption court has declined to quash some of the charges against former PS Lilian Omollo over the NYS case. Justice John Nyabuto said charging an accused person is a prerogative of the Director of Public Prosecutions and he cannot be directed whom to charge or which case to prefer. The court held that Omollo was properly charged without undue delay. She was accorded an opportunity to be represented by a lawyer of her choice and subsequently supplied with documentary evidence during the pre-trial stage. Omollo has been charged on three counts — abuse of office, failure to put in place checks and conspiracy to commit a felony — all scattered in 10 cases before three different courts. Omollo moved to the High Court, seeking to quash her charges and obtain a declaration the charges against her were unconstitutional, saying they violate her rights as an accused person. Read: PS Omollo, NYS boss accused of handling fake LPOs She said she was not informed and furnished with a full list of the intended charges before being arraigned. Omollo said the charges as currently drafted and presented before court are meant to embarrass and intimidate her. But the judge said he does not see any prejudice in being charged separately for offences committed at different times, involving different amounts of money and affecting different companies. “Where appropriate, depending on the nature of evidence, the trial court is in a better position to act by directing on separate charges or joinder,” he said. Issues for determination by the court was whether charging of Omollo with 10 different cases with several co-accused persons tried in three different courts, violates her fundamental right to a fair trial. Read: NYS suspect Lillian Omollo sacked as PS, replaced by Francis Owino The court was also to determine whether the charges amount to double jeopardy, if the charges are defective and her rights to bail pending trial were violated. Nyabuto said the doctrine of double jeopardy is only applicable where a trial has been concluded and a determination made either acquitting or convicting the accused. “The claim of double jeopardy before trial commences is merely speculative and untenable since charges are independent of each other,” he said. The judge said each court will consider the relevant evidence and arrive at an appropriate decision. The judge said considering the nature of charges Omollo is facing, where colossal sums were allegedly lost, it will not be in the public interest to withdraw some charges or hold them in abeyance, pending the outcome of the others. Also Read: PS Lillian Omollo admitted to KNH after collapsing in Langata prison Click here for the latest political news   