No country’s political journey is the same. However every political journey to ensuring progress on all spheres — from cohesion to economic stability — starts at the same point: Political honesty and commitment of the highest level. In Kenya, however, things are different; character does not matter, dishonesty is tolerated and fraud is praised. Our political system has become ridiculous. Indeed, hypocrisy is an element of political failure. To remain silent in the face of such sickening levels of political immorality is to prioritise fraud and reject civility in the conduct of our political leaders. Hypocrisy in Kenyan politics is a plague that must be denounced and eradicated because the time has come for greater political commitment, coherence and consistency. We must evolve our politics to defeat the rising toll of this vice. It is essential that we think about our national values, without which there will be no nation called Kenya. Placing a man’s interests and a political party’s agenda before the health, safety and integrity of a nation amounts to bullying and political grandstanding. Hypocrites invite moral decay. The political cost of hypocrisy is widespread, self-undermining and socially precarious. We, the people of Kenya, have a duty to be more vigilant and we will be justified in our outrage when we detect hypocrisy. Accusations of political hypocrisy are common in Kenya. The significance of such accusations is a denunciation of alleged violation of principles of political practice in the context of bureaucratic decisions, public appointments and political agreements. Yet, the characters that embolden such accusations are also embedded within the context of political competition. Today, most Kenyans overwhelmingly express disapproval of political hypocrisy, and many consider it to be a grave problem. This reaction carries important socioeconomic and political implications, and constitutes the first step to correcting the situation for the sake of Project Kenya. Hypocrisy breeds deception and distortion in the hearts and minds of citizens, and its prevalence is a great irony in democratic politics and, by extension, a pointer to abject failure to understand the essence of political leadership. The webs of secrecy and lies characteristic of political hypocrites have roots in suspicions about power. Their consequences undermine democratic values while fostering a culture of deception and mistrust. This explains why our elections are marked and defined by instances of horrifying tension, conflict and violence. To address this political menace Kenyans, especially the youth, must advocate and insist on authenticity and sincerity of political intentions. It is an act of patriotism to dispose of political hypocrites by exposing their hypocrisy and showing how wrong their political convictions are. This is a role worth dwelling upon during elections if we are to put Kenya firmly on the paths of progress and political maturity, lack of which has given us fraudsters and cartels as leaders, and eroded the beauty of our political system. Political scientist alegotunya@gmail.com   