MCAs have condemned the plan in Murang’a to impose a 25 per cent tax on Ndakaini Dam water,calling it economic sabotage and incitement. Murang’a politicians led by Governor Mwangi wa Iria want the levy imposed on the resource to raise revenue. Nairobi MCAs said the leaders are playing politics with the lives of millions of Kenyans. “This is pure incitement. We know that all rivers belong to the government,” Water committee chairman Paul Kados said. Kados said Wairia and Senator Irungu Kang’ata are misleading Murang’a residents for selfish political mileage. “Kang’ata wants to succeed Wairia, while the governor wants to become deputy president in 2022. We know the politics going on but they won’t succeed because we know what the law says,” Kados said. Wairia roped in MCAs to support the levy. Kang’ata has supported the call and even proposed a 40 per cent levy. NO NAWASCO PROFIT The senator says revenue raised will be used to expand water connections and conserve the environment to sustain supply. But Kados said that Nairobi City Water and Sewerage Company does profit from the sale of water as it only charges for service and system maintenance. Thus, the MCA said, it is unfair for Murang’a to impose the tax. “Acts of incitement being undertaken by various leaders against the drawing of water from Ndakaini Dam for distribution in Kiambu, Machakos and Nairobi can only be seen as sabotage of the economy of the country,” Kados said. He said it was illegal for the county government to claim ownership of water bodies. “All water bodies are public land held by the national government in trust for the people of Kenya,” he said. Kados said water resources are managed and apportioned by the national government through the Water Resources Management Authority, which is paid monthly charges for abstraction.” Ndakaini Dam in Murang’a supplies 84 per cent of Nairobi’s daily water consumption. The rest is supplied by Sasimua Dam in Nyandarua, Ruiru Dam and Kikuyu Springs, both in Kiambu. Ndakaini supplies about 440,000 cubic metres per day. The dam has a capacity of 70,000,000 cubic metres. It was constructed in 1988 and is fed by Thika, Kiyuyu and Githika rivers. Kados said the 1,200 acres of the dam site was compulsorily acquired by the government in 1988. Sasumua dam is in Njambini, South Kinangop, Nyandarua county. It was commissioned in 1961 and supplies 60,325 cubic metres to Nairobi per day. CITY HALL PROTEST Ruiru Dam and Kikuyu Springs supply 21,600 and 4000 cubic meters per day, respectively. Last week, City Hall protested the plans to impose tax on Ndakaini water consumption. Water executive Larry Wambua said the push to have Nairobi pay for water from Ndakaini was wrong. “Ndakaini is a strategic national resource. We are working in partnership with the national government to resolve the matter,” Wambua told the Star on the phone.