The Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission Chairman Wafula Chebukati says the agency has quorum. He said a recent court ruling, and going by the Constitution, the remaining three commissioners are enough to carry on with the commission's affairs. Chebukati spoke on Monday during the launch of the Continuous Voter Registration at Unoa grounds in Makueni. He said the commission is doing some restructuring. "We agree there are a few issues in the commission. At some point, Kenyans will have an opportunity to recommend to the commission the people they want promoted or even demoted," he said. Chebukati asked Parliament to hasten a bill that seeks to integrate data collection by the IEBC. This, he said, will ensure that all relevant government agencies have access to data. Chebukati said they are targeting to increase the number of registered voters by three per cent. "We have plans to start partnering with county governments to create awareness for citizens to register as voters," Chebukati said. Also read: IEBC properly constituted, High Court rules Some leaders who attended the launch took the commission to task over the disputed 2017 presidential election. Makueni senator Mutula Kilonzo Jnr said with or without the handshake, Kenyans still want an audit of the results. "On October 26, 2017, NASA boycotted the repeat election. Even if there was a handshake between NASA presidential candidate Raila Odinga and President Uhuru Kenyatta on March 9, we have not forgotten. The commission needs to tell us what happened with the election servers," Mutula said. "Handshake or no handshake, we want an audit of the server." Makueni governor Kivutha Kibwana said it should not be forgotten that some Kenyans were killed in the last elections. He said their families want answers. The governor said the commission and politicians should share responsibility. "Sometimes we tend to heap the blame on the IEBC alone, but our electoral history is clear. Sometimes it's we the politicians who make the elections very difficult and later blame the commission. We should share the blame," Kibwana said. Commissioner Abdi Nguliye denied that the servers remained a secret. "All the presidential candidates' IT agents were able to access the server during tallying. They have refused to tell their supporters the truth," he said. Makueni woman representative Rose Museo, MPs Daniel Maanzo (Makueni), Joshua Kimilu (Kaiti) and Theddeaus Nzambia were present. Click here for the latest political news