An unspecified number of global hotel brands have signed deals and confirmed investment in the industry to boost tourism growth. This is following the recently concluded Africa Hotel Investment Forum. Tourism Finance Corporation MD Jonah Orumoi told the Star that although they were yet to conclude on the new deals, firms including Aleph Hospitality, Marriott Hotels and Resorts and Radisson had already confirmed they will establish new projects and take over old ones over the next three years. “A lot of firms want to enter the Kenyan market either through greenfield or brownfield projects showing Kenya’s attractiveness as a leading tourism destination in the continent,” he said. The government plans to woo investors by creating incentives that are specific to their investment plans, including amount to be injected and jobs to be created among others. During the three-day forum, the tourism ministry also marketed the other 45 counties as unique tourism destinations offering great investment opportunities. “Each county has its attractiveness which investors can bank on,” Orumoi said. Hemingways Holdings Alastair Addison said the country’s hotel owners, especially at the coast, are not in tune with the world’s current tourism trends which has in turn drawn tourists to other destinations such as Zanzibar. “Most hotels especially in the coastal line are tired,” Addison said. In the 2018-19 budget, Sh380 million was allocated for capital lending to hoteliers and Sh325 million for restoration of Fort Jesus. Last year, Kenyan hoteliers missed out on a Sh10 billion revival loan from the African Development Bank. The refurbishment fund was never doled out due to a recovery in the Kenyan economy and specifically the tourism industry. “It was agreed by both sides that at this time it was not necessary for Kenya to borrow $100 million because the tourism industry and the economy changed,” AfDB East Africa regional boss Gabriel Negatu told the Star. “The loan was never executed.” Last year, Kenya’s tourism sector grew 10.7 per cent recording 1.47 million tourists with revenue at Sh120 billion.