The county government has urged Nairobi traders to report impostors asking them to pay for market space. Trade committee chairman Charles Thuo said city residents are being blackmailed into giving money to have market spaces reserved for them. Thuo told the Star yesterday that conmen are purporting to allocate spaces at the New Wakulima Market on Kangundo Road, which is nearing completion. “On Wednesday, I went to the site and I found some residents camping at the entrance, claiming they had paid in order to be allocated space inside the market. I want to clarify that City Hall has neither sent anyone nor is it seeking to ask Nairobians to pay for spaces,” Thuo said. “I urge residents not to pay any amount of money and to immediately report to the police or at City Hall any person blackmailing them,” he added. The county government has put tight security at the market and only contractors or permitted persons are allowed within the market. Thuo said before any allocation of space, a joint market committee will be set up to deal with the matter. “The committee will come up with a list of traders who will be allocated, establish the mechanism by which traders will be selected and how themarkets will be operated,” Thuo said. The Sh800 million New Wakulima Market is located in Mowlem ward, Embakasi West subcounty. It will accommodate over 4,000 traders and will help decongest county markets and increase access to quality, affordable and sustainable food. “Some points the committee will consider are the people of Mowlem ward. In the selection, they will be given first priority. But the committee will ensure that the selection and allocation of traders in the market will be just,” Thuo said. Plans are underway for building of a new Gikomba Market. In June, 15 people died while 60 others suffered injuries in a fire at the market. The national government in partnership with Nairobi county will build a five-storey modern market at Gikomba. It will have at least 525 stalls. Thuo said the tender for construction has been awarded. “Before we start construction at Gikomba, we have to consider the traders who are already operating from there, where they will be relocated. Such matters will also be taken up by the market committee when it is formed,” he said. Governor Mike Sonko has said all the city markets will adhere to set standards, including safety guidelines. Nairobi currently has 20 open-air and 23 large markets, which are not enough for the huge population.