News and commentaries about the retired despot were – as
usual - selective: Moi’s love for children, his school milk programme,
colourful national celebrations, speeches, his ability to hold the country
together, whatnot. Absent from the reminiscences was the tyranny and endemic corruption
of the Moi regime. Apparently, the repression of dissent, exile, assassinations,
detention without trial, politically motivated ethnic clashes, looting of
public coffers and grabbing of public land never happened. Daniel arap Moi succeeded Jomo Kenyatta
who died on August 22, 1978. The new leader pledged to follow in the footsteps
(nyayo) of his predecessor under a mendacious “philosophy” of peace,
love and unity. Moi was embraced by a country anxious
for peaceful transition following extensive shenanigans of the previous decade
to lock him out of the Kenyatta succession. Once he ensconced himself in State
House, the man who would call himself ‘professor of politics’ embarked on
erecting one of the most repressive and rapacious single-party dictatorships to
emerge in post-colonial Africa. The leftist historian Maina wa Kinyatti
was one of Moi’s many detainees and exiles. He reproduces in one of his books
an anonymous leaflet distributed in 1980 by University of Nairobi students fighting
the Moi regime: “A rule of talk, talk, talk and do the
opposite. The nauseating demagogy which Moi and the traitorous clique around
him employ to mask their unpopular rule has failed to hide the all-around
suffering of Kenyans. One notices the intensified pauperisation of the Kenyan
people, as evidenced in ever rising unemployment, sky-high inflation, famine
and starvation, wage freezes, forced cash contributions (under the pretext of
Harambee) to the already wealthy ones. This is what they call love, peace and
unity. We have a different name for it: foreign domination, exploitation and oppression.” Moi consolidated personal rule by banning
multipartyism in 1982. He co-opted to the ruling party Kanu all groups that
might threaten his rule: trade unions, corporate associations, women’s and
youth groups, name it. An evangelical Christian, Moi attended
church every Sunday and gave huge donations, cleverly manipulating the
influential clergy to legitimise his rule. As a neo-colony poorly integrated into
the world capitalist system, Kenya could not escape the global recession
brought by increasing oil prices in the late 1970s. The mainly agricultural
exports became uncompetitive. Local industry, largely agro-based, collapsed.
Severe droughts necessitated large imports of grain. Moi’s first decade was characterised
by double-digit inflation, a falling shilling, rising public debt and reduced
investment in development. Moi was isolated by Western donors over
corruption and an atrocious human rights record. He was forced to agree to
stringent structural adjustment programmes imposed by the West, the World Bank
and International Monetary Fund to get foreign aid. Under the SAPs, the regime imposed major
budget cuts and began selling public services to wananchi (‘cost-sharing’).
There were mass lay-offs in the public and private sectors as businesses crumbled.
Moi still ‘won’ every election. By 2002 when he departed State House, Moi
alone was to blame for mass poverty, the erosion of accountability of state
power, corruption, greed and the cynical manipulation of ethnicity. Moi left behind ethnic polarisation and
insecurity, grand theft, nepotism, political patronage and a devastated
economy. His era witnessed unprecedented looting
of public coffers, extensive grabbing of land and destruction of the
environment, plunder of state-owned investments, infrastructural decay,
collapse of public services and poverty. Former Bahari MP Joe Khamisi writes in
his autobiography that when Kibaki took power in 2002, he inherited a debt of Sh630
billion. Yet the annual budget was only Sh117 billion. “Corruption was present during Kenyatta’s time,
but over the period of more than two decades that Moi was at the helm of
government, it skyrocketed to shameful levels,” Hamisi says. This is the man who today enjoys
retirement at huge public expense – and has a public holiday dedicated to his
rule.