After failing to reach their target at the ongoing FIVB World Championship in Japan, national women’s volleyball team have now switched focus to the next year’s Olympics qualifiers among other events. The team failed to reach the second round after registering a single win against Kazakhstan out of possible four wins. Speaking on arrival from Japan yesterday, Kenya Volleyball Federation (KVF) technical director, David Lung’aho, said their focus shift to next year’s events, where African Cup of Nations, a qualifier for World Cup and the Olympic qualifier will be the main highlights. Lung’aho said the team will have to work on the attacks, which he said fizzled out during the championship. “Our reception this time around was not that bad but our spikes at some point fizzled out. We will be working on that as we sharpen other departments going forward,” noted the official. He added“Next year, we have a busy schedule and with this team, we hope to qualify for the Olympics, make the cut for the World Cup and at the same time reclaim our first position in Africa.” Kenya are ranked second behind Cameroon after the Central Africans won the World Championship qualifiers last year. Lung’aho at the same time lauded the national team debutants and Kenya Prisons duo of Sharon Chepchumba and Lorraine Chebet. “Most of these players were playing at the World Championship for the first time. Chepchumba and Chebet especially and impressed whenever they were given the chance to play and we can only build on that going forward. Leonida Kasaya and Christine Psiwa were also impressive,” said Lung’aho who doubles up as Kenya Prisons women’s volleyball team coach. He also hinted that officials from Kazakhstan national team had shown interest in three of the players but promised to contact the KVF once they get the nod from their federation. “We had along chat with Kazakhstan officials and notified us of their interest but said they will avail the names once their federation clear them to get the Kenyan players,” observed Lung’aho.