A requiem mass for 30 people from Kakamega who died in the Fort Ternan bus crash will be held on Wednesday. The last week’s accident of the Kakamega-bound Home Boyz bus claimed 58 lives and left others admitted in various hospitals with serious injuries. The county government will meet the cost of the funeral arrangements for the Kakamega victims. The mass will be at Amalemba grounds in Kakamega town. A member of the county funeral committee, Dick Rayori, said the committee will buy coffins in Kisumu today as there are no enough caskets in Kakamega. “At least 23 bodies were moved to Kakamega from Kericho on Thursday night and on Friday nine more were brought in. One was taken by relatives and we have 30 now. There are seven more bodies that are yet to be identified but if they are proved to be from Kakamega, we shall bring them,” he said. The committee members are Rayori, his deputy Sumba Juma, Health executive Rachael Okumu, county secretary Jacinta Odhiambo, head of enforcement Jonathan Kisaka and senior administrator Wilson Yaola. The committee will be responsible for arranging preservation of the bodies and the joint mass. Rayori said the committee will set up an information centre to ensure free flow of information. Governor Wycliffe Oparanya spent the entire Saturday vising families that lost their loved ones. Oparanya was overwhelmed and broke down in tears while addressing a family that lost five members in Ingotse village, Navakholo constituency. Mzee Joseph Munala, 60, lost his son Roston Munala, 33, Roston’s wife Catherine Mutonyi and their two children Levis Lomen and Vero Ndiona (daughter) in the grisly accident. Munala also lost his granddaughter Asha Dalina. His niece, Jerusa Anyera, is still undergoing treatment at the Moi Teaching and Referral Hospital where she is admitted with a broken spine. The six were travelling home for the burial of their grandmother Pelinah Tsaboka, which took place on Saturday. The owner of the bus Cleophas Shimanyula, popularly known as Toto, yesterday sent his condolences to the bereaved families. “It is not our wish that people should die or even we should lose our bus. This accident was a result of the poor state of the road which has no signs as required by law,” he said on the phone. Kericho governor Paul Chepkwony announced on Thursday that his administration would waive the costs incurred at the Kericho County Referral Hospital to treat the accident victims. Oparanya and Chepkwony, who visited the casualties in Kericho on Thursday, said the compassion and solidarity with which the people of Kericho responded to the tragedy reflected the spirit of the Lake Region Economic Bloc. 