Saudi Arabia has finally admitted that journalist Jamal Khashoggi is dead after offering various explanations for his disappearance more than two weeks ago. The country has carried out its own investigation into what happened to the 59-year-old at its own consulate in Istanbul, Turkey and claimed Friday evening he died following an altercation on October 2. This is the latest claim made by the kingdom, which earlier said Khashoggi had left the consulate alive and well. And President Donald Trump has said he believes the explanation for the journalist's death is credible, despite previous reports torturers severed the journalist's fingers during an interrogation and later beheaded and dismembered him. A statement released by the Saudis, said the suspects got into a fight with Khashoggi, which lead to his death. 'While the investigations are still ongoing into the case with the 18 Saudi detainees, the Kingdom expresses its deep regret at the painful developments that have taken place,' it added. Saudi Arabia thanked Turkey for its 'exceptional cooperation' in the investigation. It added that it values Turkish President Recep Tayyip ErdoÄŸan's cooperation in investigating the case. Saudi Arabia claims the suspects went to Istanbul to meet with Khashoggi over the possibility of him returning to the country. He was trying to obtain documents for a marriage license at the consulate. His death occurred after a heated discussion turned into a quarrel and then a fist fight, they allege. The vague statement has not explained exactly how he died, but the suspects then apparently tried to cover it up. A Saudi official told Reuters it was unclear where the body was after it was handed over to a 'local cooperator' but there was no sign of it at the consulate. Saudi has not yet named any of their suspects. However Saud al-Qahtani, the royal court adviser, has been ousted after the country's own investigation. Mohamed bin Saleh al Rumeh, assistant to the president of general intelligence for intelligence affairs, Abduallah bin Khalifa al Shaya, assistant to the president of general intelligence for human resources ,and Rachad bin Hamed al Muhamadi, director of the general department for security and protection in the command of general intelligence, were also dismissed. Deputy intelligence chief Ahmed Assiri was fired and his Twitter account posted a message in Arabic Friday night. The user posted (rough translation): 'I extend my sincere thanks and gratitude to His Holiness the Custodian of the Two Holy Mosques and His Highness the Crown Prince, for the great confidence they have placed in me and for this great opportunity to honor my national service over the past years ... 'I will remain a faithful servant of my country for a long time, and our dear homeland will remain lofty, God willing.' It's not clear whether Assiri posted it himself or whether someone else did so on his behalf. The New York Times previously said it had spoken to three people with knowledge of the Saudi plans relating to General Assiri, who had earlier served as the spokesman for the Saudi-led military intervention in Yemen before being promoted to his current job in intelligence. Two of the sources said Saudi rulers are set to explain that Assiri had been given verbal permission from the Crown Prince to capture Khashoggi for questioning in Saudi Arabia but that he either overstepped the authorization or misunderstood his orders. According to CBS News Assiri was very close to the country's crown prince. 'You don't get much closer,' a source told Kylie Atwood. US President Donald Trump says Saudi explanation for Jamal Khashoggi's killing is credible and a 'good first step'. The American leader said he does not believe Saudi Arabia's leadership lied to him, adding that the US needs Saudi Arabia to counteract Iran. The White House added it is 'saddened' by the confirmed death of the Saudi journalist. 'The United States acknowledges the announcement from the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia that its investigation into the fate of Jamal Khasshoggi is progressing and that it has taken action against the suspects it has identified thus far,' Press Secretary Sarah Sanders wrote in a statement. 'We will continue to follow international investigations into this tragic incident and advocate for justice that is timely, transparent and in accordance with all due process. 'We offer our deepest condolences to his family, fiancee and friends.' The country is to restructure its intelligence agencies after the killing of Khashoggi, under King Salman Abdulaziz Al Saud's orders. Salman - who is the Custodian of the Two Holy Mosques, Al-al-Haram (in Mecca) and Al-an-Nabawi (in Medina) - ordered that a ministerial committee is formed to restructure the General Intelligence Presidency, modernize its regulations and define its powers. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs said it was a resolution concerning the journalist's death and is an extension of the Kingdom's commitment to consolidating justice. However the mission is said to be led by his son Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman, who was suspected of being behind Khashoggi's disappearance in some versions of stories alleging what happened to the Washington Post writer. A Saudi official said Friday the prince had no knowledge of details in the Khashoggi case. 'There were no orders for them to kill him or even specifically kidnap him,' said the official to Reuters, speaking on condition of anonymity and adding that there was a standing order to bring critics of the kingdom back to the country. 'MbS had no knowledge of this specific operation and certainly did not order a kidnapping or murder of anybody. He will have been aware of the general instruction to tell people to come back.' Find more details on Daily Mail. Click here for the latest political news 