Kenya’s food and drink industry is the most developed in the East African region, being home to international hotels, including five-star, four-star, three-star and impressive eateries. According to the Tourism Regulatory Authority, there are 10 hotels in the five-star international classification category in Nairobi. Only three hotels got this rating in Mombasa. Tens of other hotels are in four-, three- and two-star classification categories, all fighting out for the increasingly savvy customer. The classification process, which started in 2014, was concluded this year. It saw hundreds of hotels get a certification, depending on the experiences they offer revellers, including travelling business people, conferencing, and those on leisure tours. The authority says such a procedure ensures high standards in services and other amenities are kept according to the classification level of the hotel. Nairobi also has more restaurants than any other city in the country, with several international cuisines on offer. You will get a treat of Brazilian steak, Italian pasta, Kenyan tilapia, Somali goat delicacies, anything you like. Eatout places serving a mix of fast food and traditional meals, salads, milkshakes, cakes, coffee, teas and blends of foods and pastries have also become popular as spots for a quick snack with an informal chat over lunch hour or in the evenings. According to Evelyn Wangui of Village Market, the Gigiri-based mall not only has Nairobi’s first food market, it has also opened a number of new concepts, as well as several more eating destinations for the whole family. “We are offering complete offering, from fast casual to fine dining breakfast, to desserts, morning coffee to nightcap,” she said in an interview.  INTERNATIONAL BRANDS The newly revamped mall is expecting more international brands to open at the food court, with names such as CJ’s, Mug & Bean, and KFC lining up to start business there. Other expectations include The Local Grill (a steakhouse) and Off The Rocks (an Oyster, Gin and Champagne outlet) opening their first outlets there soon. Among the unique offerings to food fanatics will be a demo kitchen. “This will be a regular feature in the new Food Market. We are currently putting together a schedule of events, which will be hosted by local and international chefs, demonstrating recipes and showing visitors how to prepare innovative quick meals,” Wangui said. As the year winds down to the festivities of the holiday season and Christmas, malls come up with engaging ideas that will draw shoppers and other revellers to their businesses. Expect smashing discounts on products and services, interactive games, food and more forums for shoppers to spend while enjoying themselves. Food, shopping and recreation will be central themes for this year’s festive season.