Maize farmers trooped to banks to collect their payments but did not find any, despite assurances that the Treasury had released Sh1.4 billion. Treasury CS Henry Rotich and his Agriculture counterpart Mwangi Kiunjuri committed to have the farmers paid starting Monday. Director of the Kenya Farmers Association Kipkorir Menjo said no payments had been made despite promises. “Rotich said payments will be done as from Monday but nothing happened,” Menjo said. More than 500 farmers have desperately waited to be paid for the last nine months. NCPB officials in Kitale, Mois Bridge, Eldoret and elsewhere said they were waiting for cash and farmers would be paid immediately the money is sent to the depots. NCPB depot officials said they had been jammed with inquiries from farmers since Monday. Officials from the EACC and the DCI were deployed at the depots to help monitor the payments to farmers. “I have been to the bank twice but all I got were regrets that my account had no cash,” farmer Christopher Kolum said. Moiben MP Silas Tiren said farmers will stage huge protests should the government fail to pay them as promised. “Farmers have become a laughing stock. The government keeps on lying to them but if they don’t pay this time, it will not be business as usual,” Tiren said. Rotich said last Sunday that should the money be inadequate, additional funding would be availed to the National Cereals and Produce Board. He said after vetting, it was confirmed that 95 per cent of those who supplied maize to the board were genuine farmers and deserve to be paid. “I can assure you that the farmers will be paid and if the money won’t be enough, I will work to ensure NCPB gets extra funding,” Rotich said. Last Friday, Devolution CS Eugene Wamalwa said 514 small-scale farmers, of the 900 vetted will be given priority in payment. He said small-scale farmers are owed less than Sh2 million. Wamalwa said 1,154 farmers collected claim forms and 1,140 returned them for verification.The CS said 226 farmers will be investigated further. Last week, the farmers urged senators in Eldoret to intervene in the pay row. They said they are tired of waiting for their dues. They said payments should be prompt once they deliver their grains to the NCPB. Before the ad hoc committee proceeded for the public hearings, it met with executives from 12 counties, who called for urgent unbundling of functions and management of the NCPB. The Agriculture executives told the committee the persistent crisis is due to insistence by the national government to hold on to the stores. They appealed to the Senate to intervene to have the NCPB management run by the counties. “County governments, where NCPB deports are, do not know or even determine how they operate. This situation needs to be addressed urgently through an overhaul of the management of the NCPB,” Mary Nzomo, an executive from Trans Nzoia, told the committee. She said the function of construction and management of strategic grain reserves should be devolved.