Former Prime
Minister Raila Odinga, Senate Minority leader James Orengo, Homa Bay deputy speaker Hamilton Orata, Senator Moses Kajwang' and Homa Bay Woman
Representative Gladys Wanga are some of the leaders who attended the burial. MPs Paul Abuor
(Rongo), Adipo Okwome (Karachuonyo) Lilian Gogo (Rangwe) and Ong’ondo Were of
Kasipul,Homa Bay Assembly Speaker Elizabeth Ayoo and a number of MCAs also attended
the ceremony. According to his
son, Peter Ouma Muga, his father has not gone down with the dreams, commitments
and his fight for the country. Peter has vowed to pick up his late father’s spear and continue to fighting for Kenyans' dignity through attainment of economic and
political freedoms. “My father has not died because heroes don't. They
multiply into a million other heroes who cherish freedom,” he said. He said his father put the interests of his countrymen and
women first, above his own personal safety, when it was not fashionable to do so.
He led a coup in 1971, when he noted Independence ideals were being
eroded, and the champions who included Argwins Kodhek andTom Mboya were
being eliminated. “My father fought what he believed was right, possessed only
by his love for the people and the restoration of their dignity and in the
fight, he was prosecuted by a generation of self-seeking politicians". “I am comforted by the fact that my father fondly known as
Aburu Oke Konyango died a perfect death: A death of revolutionary because he
was never a sell out,” he said.  NEGLECTED HERO Without naming names, Peter
accused some leaders who sold out and lied about him in 1998 during the
"Kanu kangaroo courts", whom he said cried louder than all who stood with him for disowning
him at critical moment, hoping poverty would finish him off. He, however, said some of the politicians were proud of his
late father and unashamedly associated with him and what he stood for. “My father's mission of putting the country first was
embraced by various political organisations that he loved, but he did not know
these institutions and the people steering them had been rendered incapable of
loving him back,” Peter said. “These people prevented my father from representing the people
of Homa Bay or sharing his brilliant mind and selfless dedication to improve
the quality of life in this poverty ravaged county, despite being an early advocate of
devolution, when it was not fashionable to do so,” he said. “When the new Constitution was promulgated, many of us celebrated. We thought the devolved system of government was a solution for our
marginalized county. We, however, still see Homa Bay health sector deteroriating,” he said. “We still have run down schools, high unemployment rate, and lack of clean water. It's so unfortunate,” he said. His message to the people of Homa Bay, “Please never forget
the name “Aburu Oke Konyango” and the best way to remember him is to continue
the struggle against corruption, political cronyism, the rampant looting of
public coffers and for us all
to see true economic freedom in our lifetime,”   