It was a phrase first used by the
celebrated Egyptian intellectual, Ismail Serageldin. And though thus far there
has been no sign of the loudly proclaimed “water wars”, this phrase does shine
a light on the fact that the universal need for fresh water, has a unique
tendency to escalate political tensions. As an Egyptian, Serageldin was
uniquely well-placed to appreciate these tensions, as his country is totally
dependent on water from the Nile River — a river that has its sources in
several nations both near and far, any of which nations might have its own
ideas of how the waters of the Nile should be used or shared. Kenya also faces a somewhat similar
dilemma to that of Egypt — albeit on a very much smaller scale. The principal
source of the waters that flow into our Lake Turkana is the Omo River – that,
unfortunately for us, is not in Kenya, but in Ethiopia. And as it happens, Kenya has signed
a memorandum of understanding with Ethiopia to buy about one-third of the power
produced by a hydroelectric dam on this river. But at the same time, the
negative environmental impacts expected to arise from this project, will mostly
be felt in Kenya, with some environmentalists sensationally claiming that the
Gibe-III Dam on the Omo River “will kill Lake Turkana”. So “water politics” as some term it,
is a very complex matter indeed. Far more complex than the good people of
Murang’a seem to appreciate, when – according to recent reports – they
“overwhelmingly” support their governor, Mwangi wa Iria, in his demand that
Murang’a be allowed to impose a tax on all water supplied to Nairobi from his
county. The Murang’a governor is playing on
a longstanding staple of Kenyan political psychology: That the public is always
delighted to hear that there is some valuable resource in their backyard, which
has been unfairly taken advantage of by “outsiders”. And that, at the very
least, they deserve massive compensation if indeed they are to permit the
exploiting of this resource by the said “outsiders” (in this case the residents
of Nairobi, and the central government). Indeed, it was opposition leader
Raila Odinga, who first condemned the Murang’a-based Northern Water Collection
Tunnel project, as a catastrophe in the making, going so far as to declare that
this perfectly rational World Bank-funded project was "one of
the most disastrous initiatives as it will turn Murang’a, Garissa,
Ukambani and Tana River Delta regions into deserts, within five years of
completion". This declaration must have proved
appealing to many in Murang’a, even though it did not translate into pro-Raila
votes. So, the governor has now adopted the idea as his own, only modifying it
to focus on a demand for compensation, instead of condemning it wholesale. This is a far shrewder proposition,
as it asks for something that can be negotiated and settled. There was never any
question of the project being stopped altogether, however, strongly the people
of Murang’a may have felt about it. But the governor’s critics have not
been idle, as this drama has played out. One of them recently claimed this is
not about water at all, but rather a case of Governor wa Iria positioning
himself as a champion of local interests and the “rights” of the ordinary
people, as a preliminary to pursuing his populist agenda all the way to the
deputy presidency in 2022 (when he will be constitutionally barred from running
for re-election). If there is any truth in this, then
the governor has badly overreached and is playing a mug’s game. Kenyan presidents — or any other
regional political overlords — have always found it prudent to ensure there was
no open rebellion in their own backyards. You cannot focus on national
leadership, when you have a troublesome populist in your own regional
stronghold, pursuing his or her own agenda. Thus, traditionally, Kenyan
presidents have invariably crushed such interlopers, before they could spread
their influence very far. 