When news broke that a winner had just hit the SportPesa Sh208 million mega jackpot, no one in Bomet knew it would be 39-year-old Cosmas Korir. It was not until 9pm on Sunday, that it became evident Korir was indeed the one who had predicted all 17 matches correctly played at the weekend to snatch the bounty. Korir, a first born in a family of five - three men and two women - hails from Cheptabach village in Konoin, Bomet. The soft-spoken man works as a director for Agriculture at the county government of West Pokot having transferred from Bomet where he was the director of value addition in the department of agribusiness. When the Star was finally able to get through to Korir on the phone, he said, “I am very happy and thankful to God for this gift.” He said from the time news was out he was the winner, his phone has been ringing nonstop with people congratulating him. He, however, said he has had to switch off the phone at his work place to enable him concentrate on his duties. Korir ran for Konoin MP last year on the Chama Cha Mashinani party ticket but lost to a Jubilee candidate. Read: Ex-aspirant wins Sh208.7 million SportPesa jackpot The Egerton University graduate worked as an agricultural officer at the Agricultural training center in Bomet before being absorbed into the county government. Asked on the plans he has, Korir said he has not decided which business to start and will think of what to do once he gets the actual cash. biggest payout Last year, Samuel Abisai won the Sh221 million SportPesa jackpot. He was treated to a Limousine ride and a red carpet ceremony. The 28-year-old won the betting firm’s biggest payout in African history, something he described as “unbelievable but very good news”. “When I was called by the SportPesa CEO [Ronald Karauri] in the middle of [Sunday] night, I was so happy that I stood outside a petrol station jumping up and down,” he said. Read: [VIDEO] I will continue betting, says Sh231 million jackpot winner Click here for the latest political news 