Some Western politicians have asked ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi and Ford Kenya’s Moses Wetang’ula to speed up the merger of their parties to deliver power to the Luhyas in 2022. Reports have said the merger is on course, then it encounters headwinds and loses momentum, then is said to be on back on track. However, Ford-Kenya boss Moses Wetang’ula did not mention the merger when he spoke on Saturday in Kakamega town at the launch of the Kakamega Boda Boda sacco. Early strategies will allow the community to reach out to political friends ahead of 222, said Sports CS Rashid Echesa, MPs Titus Khamala (Lurambi), Didmus Barasa (Kimilili), Malulu Injendi (Malava) and former Kakamega senator Boni Khalwale. He and others also spoke on Sturday. Rashid said the Wetang’ula and ANC’s Musalia Mudavadi had kept the community waiting for too long and it was high time they gave much-needed political direction. “We don’t want to be in the opposition every now and then. I urge my big brothers to team up with leaders from other communities and get one person who can be either a president or deputy,” Echesa said. Khalwale said the technical committee set up by Mudavadi and Wetang’ula to come up with strategies to seamlessly merge their two parties had completed its work. He was a member of the team. “We’re only waiting for the two leaders to make a decision on our report. We have already identified the [new] party,” he said. Other communities are strategising and we must also move on locally and nationally, he said. Khamala said Luhyas had learnt hard lessons after decades of being used and dumped by leaders from other communities. He said the community must have a presidential candidate for 2022.Khamala said Luhya professionals have been casualties of the handshake between Opposition leader Raila Odinga and President Uhuru Kenyatta on March 9. “We have seen over 20 Luhya professionals sacked or demoted and their jobs handed to Central, Rift Valley and Nyanza regions,” he said. Injendi (Jubilee) said Western only received the deputy minority leader post despite voting 95 per cent for Nasa. “We gave Jubilee only five per cent of our votes but we received senate speaker Kenneth Lusaka, majority chief whip and two CSs (Echesa and Eugene Wamalwa). This tells you who our friends are,” he said. Deputy President William Ruto has also been making forays into Western Kenya and some leaders have proposed that a Luhya becomes Ruto’s running mate in 2022.