National examinations have four angry faces: Education CS Amina Mohamed, PS Belio Kipsang, Knec chairman George Magoha and Interior CS Fred Matiang’i. For weeks, these four have been in the news almost daily – singly or together - barking threats of dire consequences against anyone caught cheating or leaking the national exams. The four are so obsessed with eliminating cheating one would be forgiven for thinking education is all about clean exams. Cheaters will be arrested; parents whose kids cheat will be arrested and prosecuted, their certificates cancelled; no phones will be allowed in school during exams; no school visits; no prayers ahead of exams...The government has uncovered a cheating plot by over 200 schools, etcetera. Exam administration has been turned into a huge national security operation. Matiang’i has suspended leave for all police officers until the tests are over. He said 70,000 officers will be deployed to guard the exams. He will be available throughout the exam period, waking up at 3am. And so on. It is like Kenya will come to a standstill when the tests begin. How are the candidates, their parents and teachers expected to prepare for the exams in peace under this bleak climate of daily intimidation? And during the exams, the poor kids will be herded like dangerous criminals. They will be thoroughly frisked as if they are suspected suicide bombers. Someone will be watching their every move. Exam centres will be security zones, manned by mean-looking armed policemen. What is the purpose of this type of schooling, where exams have become a matter of life and death? What kind of young person is this process supposed to produce? Exam malpractices are, of course, a big problem. The integrity of any test is important. But does anyone care to find out why Kenya has reached this point of rampant cheating to warrant this securitisation of exams? And how does the government guarantee the quality of exams in universities and other institutions where massive security is not mounted? We never hear of police deployment. Cheating shouldn’t surprise anyone in a society sinking under the weight of corruption - where merit is hardly rewarded. It is hypocritical to expect young people to value honest work where thieves are celebrated. Kenya has been turned into an overly competitive society. Limited opportunities for personal advancement mean people try anything. Despite all the rhetoric about being one family, this is not a society where one is made to feel they belong. You are on your own. It is a society where individuals are not concerned about honest work but getting ahead at any cost. What kind of education have these youngsters received, if they must sit exams under armed guard? Will they be under police guard in future when they take various responsibilities in society? A good education would eliminate the desire to cheat because it would have inculcated in the minds of learners the beauty of honest work and independent thought. Amina and her gang – with cocked guns – preside over exactly the type of education Ugandan public intellectual Okot p'Bitek had in mind way back in 1967. He wrote: "The students in our university are not revolutionary. They are committed and conservative. They have vested interests. They look forward to graduation, the circumcision ceremony before joining the 'big car' tribesmen. Our universities and schools are nests in which black exploiters are hatched and bred, at the expense of taxpayers, or perhaps heartpayers." The intense anxiety to pass exams so one can “make it” in life is incontrovertible evidence of an inward-looking and ultimately harmful education that produces closed-minded monsters with zero social consciousness. This commoditised education is for getting a certificate without any real learning. It needs urgent overhaul. Learning must encompass more than acquiring knowledge and skills for the labour market, as currently trumpeted. A good education should aim at developing one’s intellectual depth and moral transformation. Such education would make it unnecessary to mount a national security operation at exam time to curb cheating. Instead, the Aminas, Matiang’is and Magohas of Kenya would sit back and smile – not bark their heads off on TV everyday.  