The government has defended a decision to lower the entry point for teacher training to grade D+. Education CS Amina Mohamed said the decision takes into account affirmative action and inequality brought by the unequal distribution of resources to some schools in marginalised areas. The framework will help boost the number of teachers in marginalised regions thus improving quality of education in this regions, she said. The Kenya National Qualification Framework last month announced it had lowered qualifications for students joining teacher training colleges. According to the new rules, students seeking to study for a diploma in education will need a C plain or C- in KCSE, down from the previous C+. Read: TSC told to give teachers certificates promptly so they get jobs Those seeking a certificate in education (popularly known as P1 ), will need a D+, down from a C plain. The framework further proposes a phase out of certificate courses from next year, leaving only diploma programmes for primary school trainee teachers. “We need to give everybody a chance. A student in Manderaand other parts of northern Kenya cannot be compared with someone from Mang’u High Hchool even if they have scored a D,” Mohamed said. Currently, the country has 330,000 employed teachers while another 290,000 teachers remain unemployed. “We are still struggling with teacher-to-student ratio, currently the ministry is looking for teachers who can serve as curriculum assistants (untrained teachers) in the northern part of the country,” Mohamed said. Meanwhile, the ministry seeks to scrap off informal schools through amendment the Basic Education Act. The ministry said the schools have caused havoc as they are poorly coordinated. “We will move a basic education amendment to scrap off Alternative Provision of Basic Education and Training (APBET) schools and alternatively be registered as private schools and must meet requirements to be registered as private institutions,” Education PS Belio Kipsang said. Kipsang further said the ministry has stopped registration of the schools because many of them had not followed the procedures. The ministry has also stopped funding them under the Free Primary Education, yet they were recognised by the government. Click here for the latest political news