Wine, who visited the Kenyan Parliament last week, is facing treason charges in Uganda in relation to the stoning of President Yoweri Museveni's convoy, and was allegedly tortured in detention upon arrest. Bebe
Cool told Ugandan NTV the media did not analyse Bobi Wine well, and that they reported lies. “I disagree with violence, I do not agree with torture. The
media, NTV, you have cameras. Watching this young man (Bobi Wine)
getting onto the car after court, he held the car with one arm and
raised the other arm with the crutches. What was down here? Was he in
the air or standing on his feet?” he said. Adding:
"Media, you look at a man wearing the heaviest shoe in life, one that
even people who are not sick cannot move freely with. It's because it is
too heavy and media still don’t analyse that.” Responding in an interview with Word Is, Bobi said: "Bebe
cool is Ugandan like me, a father to his kids like me. He is still in
the country that we are trying to fix. It is the taxpayer's money that is
being ditched in huge sums. I get disappointed because the people who made
him are the same [people] he is fighting. I only hope that
one day, he will realise and learn to use his voice well. I pray that he
realises he can use it better." Bobi
Wine was away from his family since his arrest, and that affected his
family, especially his children. "My children were so happy to
see me but at the same time my daughters cried so much when they saw me,  but I told them to be strong, there will be happier days in future," Wine said. "We
always thought that by this age we will be happy. We worked so hard in
our youth so that later on we get a good life, because we never enjoyed
our youth. We achieved but when we got here, we looked outside and
realised there is a huge responsibility that we could not run away from. "My wife is not very okay but she is very supportive. She has never told
me to quit because she understands it is not about me. She is alive for
the fact that it is for the people who got us where we are today."