Interior CS Fred Matiang’i yesterday directed police to arrest and present for prosecution all individuals who encroach on school land. He said he has been receiving complaints from head teachers and principals. “School land must be protected at all costs,” Matiang’I said at Kereri Girls’ High School in Kisii county. He commissioned a dormitory and a borehole. Governor James Ongwae was also attended the event. Matiang’I warned that they will not allow greedy individuals to compromise education. He said Kereri Girls School has been a victim of such greed when an individual turns its land into a farming field. The CS directed county commissioner Godffrey Kigochi to ensure that the person is arrested immediately. He urged leaders, including MCAs, to be at the forefront supporting education because “it’s the sure way of creating a better future.” Principals face problems managing their schools because of inadequate resources and shortage of teachers, he said. Matiang’i praised Kereri principal Theresa Atieno for “the good work she’s doing”. He also thanked Ongwae for working closely with the national government to provide services to residents. “Kisii county has reached an ideal level in working with the national government. Services to the people is not a choice but a must,” the CS said. Ongwae said he will do all it takes to ensure residents enjoy the fruits of devolution. He promised to continue working with the national government so the people get all services, especially security. Read: Nairobi school land grabbed land to be recovered, says Matiang'i Meanwhile, Matiang’i said that his ministry is working closely with Knec and the Education ministry to ensure KCPE and KCSE exams are credible. “My Ministry has put all measures in place to ensure enough security is provided during the administration of the examinations,” he said. He warned police officers that the crackdown on bhang will continue. “Already, 70 officers have been fired for escorting bhang from a neighbouring country. We’ll not allow people to transact businesses that will ruin the lives of young Kenyans,” he said. See: Titles of 32 grabbed school land revoked Matiang’i condemned the killing of two men at Kenyenya by police, saying those found culpable will face the full force of the law. “A team of investigators have since completed investigations into the killing and the report is out,” he said Click here for the latest political news 