Today, German citizens worldwide celebrate the Day of German Unity. This marks the day when 28 years ago, our country, which had forcibly been split into a Western and an Eastern Republic, was reunited. The fall of the Berlin Wall in 1989 subsequently led to an opening of the communist regime and to international negotiations on the status of a reunited Germany. However, our reunification was not brought about by external forces, but rather by the citizens themselves who had held peaceful demonstrations in several cities. The latter were triggered by bad governance, the restriction of personal liberties, economic decline and the collapse of the communist bloc. It was the young, dissatisfied generation that was claiming a better and free future for themselves. In this way the citizens of Germany, through their own actions, shaped the fate of their country. And the uprising in eastern Germany reminds us of the fundamental values of democracy, freedom of speech and rule of law that both Kenya and Germany share in their constitutions. Personally, I remember those moments vividly as I grew up and studied in former East Germany. Therefore, had it not been for this shining hour of democratic resistance and recovery of civic liberties, I would most likely not have joined the Foreign Service, which in turn has now allowed me to take up the position as new German Ambassador to Kenya. During my first weeks in Nairobi I have already noticed the vibrancy of Kenyan society, its unique blend of modern technology and traditional lifestyles. Coming from a country facing serious challenges due to an ageing population, one cannot overlook the great amount of young people here — those who eagerly try to find work opportunities, those who study hard in order to get a decent job as well as those who have founded their own creative start-ups. Germany has been able to create jobs for young people by offering methods of education that connect theoretical knowledge with practical skills and training within companies and as a result has one of the lowest unemployment rates in Europe today. Against this background, we would like to focus our engagement on supporting young Kenyans in building their own prosperous future and thereby contribute to the Big Four-Agenda laid out by the Kenyan government. Currently, we are preparing a joint programme of technical training together with Kenyan companies and Technical Vocational Education and Training Institutions (TVET) as well as the establishment of an East African-German University for Applied Sciences. Other initiatives aim at motivating young Kenyans not to remain indifferent, but to engage in politics as well as teaching them agricultural skills in order to enable them to set up their own businesses. I look forward to the implementation of these initiatives and to working together with our Kenyan partners over the upcoming years. My aim is to establish a mutual understanding of Kenyan and German concerns and hopes, and to see where we can best support Kenya in its efforts for the future. One of these efforts at present is the fight against corruption. We very much welcome the determined steps taken by President Kenyatta. The misuse of public resources can never be seen as a legitimate action, and those who have committed crimes of corruption should be held accountable. The German government is ready to continue its advisory programmes to Kenyan institutions, tackling what is probably the major obstacle to economic and social development. Finally, the regional office of the German Academic Exchange Service in Nairobi — the only one of its kind in sub-Saharan Africa — continues to offer various scholarship schemes to young Kenyan candidates. It is only one of numerous other German institutions such as the German School, the Goethe-Institute and the Delegation of German Industry and Commerce — all of them a living proof of the importance of Kenyan-German relations. I look forward to working with those institutions and strengthening our cultural exchanges. Kenya is a country with great potential, an inspiring creativity and abundant natural beauty. I am therefore very eager to get to know its people, landscapes and culture over the upcoming years. German Ambassador to Kenya