The High Court has acquitted three sisters accused of killing their 80-year-old father over a disputed property in Dagoretti, Nairobi. Justice Roselyn Korir ruled that the prosecution had failed to prove murder case against Alice Makunyi, Christine Ng’endo and Agnes Nyambura. The judge said police conducted shoddy investigations on the death of Francis Waweru. “I have considered the evidence on record. I have also considered the submissions tendered by defence lawyer John Swaka and the prosecution. It is my finding that the prosecution has not established the murder case against all three accused persons to warrant a conviction,” judge Korir said. Makunyi, Ng’endo and Nyambura and their late mother Njeri had been charged with killing Waweru on January 6, 2013. Justice Korir said police tabled in court suspicious evidence, which could not sustain a conviction. She said 13 witnesses, who testified in support of the prosecution case, alleged strained relations between Waweru and the accused. The pathologist testifying in the case said Waweru died of multiple skull and rib fractures due to blunt force trauma. According to the prosecution, a metal pipe said to be the murder weapon, was recovered from Nyambura’s bedroom. Njeri, who died three months after the trial began had claimed her husband was killed by thugs who broke into their house. But police found no sign of break-in and suspected foul play. Prosecution had informed the court that Waweru lived with his wife and daughters, but ordered them to vacate because of constant quarrels. “He had even confided in one of his sons that he would move out if the others refused to leave. However, he was murdered before he could do so,” the prosecution said. During the hearing, the three admitted to wrangles in the family, but denied having any intentions to murder their father. “There were acrimonious times. He used to fight with my mother a lot. One day, he broke her arm and leg. But we still loved our father and never wished him dead,” Nyambura said. Click here for the latest political news