It has been made to appear like the push for review of the Constitution is a result of the March 9 handshake between Raila Odinga and Uhuru Kenyatta. Yet, this process has been long drawn and far precedes the national unity of purpose. Kenyans had mixed feelings about the new Constitution, even as they passed it with absolute majority in August 2010.  In the 2010 referendum, there was a push for rejection of the then proposed Constitution. The NO side, as the opponents were known, was led by the current Deputy President William Ruto. They campaigned vigorously but gallantly lost to the YES team led by Raila Odinga. Ruto and company argued that even though the document was better than the then constitution, it had some sections that were anathema to the wellbeing of the nation. They thus sought to have the document’s passage put on hold to allow for consensus on the offending sections. However, the proponents argued that no constitution the world over was perfect. They further said the contentious sections would be reviewed once the document was approved and its implementation began. In any case, the document itself provided for self-review through the initiation of Parliament or the people. These arguments can be interpreted to be admission of some internal weaknesses in the 2010 Constitution. Upon its adoption, there was immediate rejection of certain key provisions, chief among them, Chapter Six on Integrity and Leadership Principles. The push for the review of the Constitution can as well be argued to have started immediately it was promulgated. After the first election of 2013, it again emerged that the provisions on Governance were also not consistent with the country’s traditions and historical experiences. The Constitution was celebrated on the devolution front and hailed as a masterpiece globally. However, the gaps in the implementation schedule exposed the laws to abuse by the institutions of governance. As the country progressed in its implementation, it became abundantly clear that its benefits lay more in the goodwill of the occupants of Statehouse, the Speaker’s Parlor, and the Supreme Court. Initially, it was assumed that the individuals occupying these seats would soon find their footing and live up to the spirit of the supreme law. However, as days turned into months and months into years, the country became weary. Citizens realised that some review was needed to fix the existing challenges within the document. They became impatient and the opposition, then Cord, took advantage of this to launch the Okoa Kenya Initiative. The initiative was meant to address the imbalances in governance in Parliament and the Executive. This initiative was interpreted by the government to mean reducing the powers of the executive and accessing power through the backdoor. The OKOA Kenya was killed at the doorstep of the then recalcitrant IEBC and thus flopped. The counties through their Council of Governors then launched another effort at reviewing the laws. Their contention was that the spirit of devolution had been diluted and needed to be secured in no uncertain terms. The Pesa Mashinani Initiative was driven by the governors led by Isaac Rutto. It led to a fallout between the executive and the Council of Governors as exemplified by the infamous “pesa si mama yako” declaration in Narok. All these moves were aimed at seeking an amicable process of addressing the inadequacies of the constitution as was provided for in the laws.  EXECUTIVE HOSTILITY As is evident, while the previous attempts were within the law and as is provided, they lacked the institutional support. The Executive was hostile to the initiatives while parliament was ambivalent to them. They therefore proved to be exercises in futility. Yet the results of the 2017 elections brought to fore the weaknesses of the constitution in huge magnitudes. It was clear the country’s challenges could not be cured by the existing laws alone. The laws while well written were not in synch with the nation’s aspirations. They could not be relied upon to arbitrate on disputes touching on national leadership and distribution of resources. The country was again on precipice of chaos and possible disintegration. Kenya had gone through this rough tumble earlier in 2007/8 and was well aware of its consequences. However, the international community that intervened and helped mediate in the post-election violence of 2008 curiously stood aloof. It appeared like the country was abandoned at its hour of self-inflicted need. Despondency and crime appeared to set in, with large sections of the state disregarding the law with wanton abandon. The nation became almost ungovernable. Then all of a sudden and in their wisdom, Raila Odinga and Uhuru Kenyatta joined hands in unity of purpose and the nation breathed a sigh of relief. The key plank in the Building Bridges Initiative was the review of the constitution. Then calls for a referendum gained unprecedented traction from both sides of the political divide.  NEW CLAMOUR Fast forward to the current situation. When it became clear that President Uhuru Kenyatta was determined to establish a united nation as his legacy, his deputy got alarmed. Immediately, Ruto’s supporters dismissed calls for the review of the constitution as a ploy by Raila to form a Nusu Mkate government with Uhuru. They even challenged their boss, the president to declare whether he will keep his promise of supporting Ruto for the presidency in 2022. The president kept mum only reaffirming his commitment to the Big Four Agenda at best. Campaigns were mounted especially in URP strongholds of Rift Valley and North Eastern to castigate the pushers and movers of the referendum debate. They hoped that group around Raila would suffer the same fate as the Change the Constitution Movement of the 1970s. However, the movement got bolder and attracted more followers including the president’s close confidantes. The die was cast; the country would have a referendum to review the constitution. The discussion would be on when and what content, not if. Ruto sensed defeat in this national discourse and quickly changed tact and shifted focus. He publicly declared support and challenged Raila to put on the table the referendum agenda. His lieutenants announced that they will be on the opposing side. This was meant to signal their readiness to clear this hurdle early enough so as to have ample time for 2022 elections.  THE TRAGEDY The tragedy is that the referendum debate has now firmly assumed a battle of control between Raila and Ruto. This dichotomy has concurrently acquired a tribal dimension and with it savage agitation on both sides. It is unlikely that the protagonists will rise to the occasion and engage constructively for the benefit of the citizens, the national good and posterity. Debates are more likely to be guided by ethnic idiosyncrasies than the genuine weaknesses within the constitution. Arguments will be proffered to vilify or extol opponents and proponents on account of their perceived vices and virtues respectively and as may be appropriate. Referendum questions will unlikely be objective but slanted to suit short term parochial interests. Citizens will be mobilized through ethnic and regional balkanization during the referendum campaigns. The referendum process will be judged more on the individual benefits and strategic positioning of the current presidential front runners. In the ensuing political milieu, the citizens will temporarily forget that this was their agenda. They will ignore the merits and demerits of the proposed review and fall in line with their tribal kingpins. The nation shall have lost another grand opportunity to right the wrongs of our constitution and vision of the founding fathers. Kenya will be back to square one after the 2022 elections and may God help the nation not to slide into anarchy. 