The families of murdered Kabete MP George Muchai, his two bodyguards and a driver are still waiting for justice three and half years after the incident. The case against seven suspects, among them two women, is pending at the High Court and is expected to resume on October 11 a break of more than nine months. Many witnesses, including the widow of the late MP, have testified before Justice James Wakiaga. The prosecution is being headed by senior state counsel Alloys Kemo. Muchai, his two bodyguards Samuel Kairikia and Samuel Matanta, and his driver Stephen Wambugu were shot dead on the night of February 6 and 7, 2015 along Kenyatta Avenue in Nairobi. The seven accused persons are Erick Isabwa alias Chairman, Raphael Gachii alias Butcher, Mustafa Anyonyi alias Musto, Stephen Lipapo alias Chokore, Jane Kamau alias Shiro, Margaret Wachuiri and Simon Gichamba. They all denied the murder charge. At the last hearing Muchai’s wife Susan Ngige told the court that the killing of her husband was well planned and executed. “It is evident from the manner in which he was sprayed with bullets that his execution was well planned,” she said. She said her husband was shot when he had stopped opposite the General Post Office on Kenyatta Avenue, Nairobi, to buy newspapers from a vendor. The widow said she heard her husband hoot, as she was way ahead of him in her own car after attending a family meeting at Galileo Club in Westlands on the night of February 6, 2015. “Before leaving Galileo, we had agreed that we stop at Kenyatta Avenue to drop off our driver Stephen Wambugu to pick a matatu to Huruma estate where he lived,” Ngige recalled. She narrated that she could see her husband’s vehicle in the side mirror and when she stopped at the agreed point, she heard heavy shooting behind her. “Within a split second I heard heavy shooting from powerful guns. I phoned my husband and his driver but neither responded,” Ngige said. “I made a U-turn and drove fast to where my husband’s vehicle was but all I saw were badly injured people.” She recounted how she proceeded to the driver’s seat and noticed he had been shot and the engine was still running. “I switched it off. I noticed that my husband and his two bodyguards were shot”, she said. Ngegi said police arrived at the scene and “barred me from handling my husband, saying only medics could handle him.” Another witness, the widow’s sister Judy Njoki, said Muchai may have had a premonition about his death and was tense even as he parted with relatives moments before he was shot him dead. Njoki recalled his last moments, saying they had a good time at Galileo.“I asked him if he could loosen up a bit but he said he was armed,” Njoki said. She said she asked him to step on the dance floor but he declined. “He looked very guarded, with his jacket and tie on.” They left the club around 2.45am. Njoki said the only unusual thing she noticed was a crowd who met them to greet Muchai after leaving Galileo.