Airtel Kenya has registered 3.56 million new subscribers over the past year, data by the Communication Authority has shown. The firm’s subscription rate grew 50.61 per cent to 9.74 million users for the period ending June 2018, the fastest growth when compared to competing telcos in the market. Telkom Kenya also registered a 37.59 per cent growth with about 1.09 million new users to 3.79 million subscriptions. Market leader Safaricom, grew its subscriptions at a much slower rate of 1.86 per cent accruing 551,152 new users over the review period to 29.78 million subscribers. The increase, especially by Airtel and Telkom, has resulted in a shift in market share with telco giant safaricom losing 7.2 per cent of its share to 65.35 per cent in the last year, registering declines in over the past three quarters. The data shows Airtel has gained 6.02 per cent of the total market share to command 21.37 per cent of the market while Telkom’s market share has increased marginally to 8.76 per cent. Safaricom and the regulator have been tussling over a report on competition in the industry, which among other things calls for price controls on Safaricom to help smaller operators. The report by British research firm Analysys Mason also recommended that CA imposes controls on some of Safaricom products. This was to include the sharing of infrastructure with its rivals under a regulated pricing regime as opposed to commercial arrangements and mobile money interoperability. In March, CA introduced mobile money interoperability to allow seamless cash transfers across all networks, a move expected to drop mobile money transfer costs significantly by fostering healthy competition in the sector. Although Telkom and Airtel have introduced a singular piece tariff for cross-network transfers, Safaricom still charge unregistered users from other networks higher fees for transfers than they do their subscribers. A document submitted to Parliament in August shows Airtel is also pushing for Safaricom’s dominance to be mitigated through introduction of mobile money agent interoperability.