Joseph Irungu, alias Jowie, is expected to be charged today in a Milimani court with the murder of Monica Kimani. Kimani, 28, was found dead in a bathtub in her Kilimani apartment, Nairobi. Her throat was slit. She has been buried at her parents’ home in in Gilgil, Nakuru county. Jowie, TV news anchor Jaque Maribe’s fiancé, has been linked with the murder. Detectives were granted 10 more days to hold him at the Muthaiga police station so they could complete investigation. Kiambu senior principal magistrate Stella Atambo granted the order. Investigating officer Maxwell Otieno had told the court he needed to travel to South Sudan to gather more evidence before charges are preferred against Jowie. Maribe and Brian Kassaine are also suspects and are being held in different police stations. They are to be presented in the dock again this week. Read: Maribe to face murder charge Maribe might not be charged, however, but might become a prosecution witness. She recanted her earlier statement to police detailing how Jowie wanted to commit suicide by shooting himself in the chest at their Royal Park estate in Lang’ata. Earlier Maribe had recorded a statement with the DCI detailing how she and her fiancé were trailed by gunmen on a motorbike as the drove home at night on September 20. She claimed the riders shot Jowie. Kasaine, 35, said Jowie had on September 11, borrowed his Ceska pistol for “training”, minus bullets. He is Maribe’s neighbour and a mutual friend to both. Read: Maribe and fiance’s accounts at odds with friend’s version Kassaine’s gun is said to have been used in Jowie’s shooting and later found in the ceiling of his house. He revealed that Jowie attempted to commit suicide by shooting himself with his gun. The suspect added that Jowie had gone to his house to seek paraffin so he could burn some clothes. Burnt clothing was found at Maribe’s home. Jowie, while in a Kiambu court, appeared calm but was holding his hand as though he were in pain from the gunshot wound. He is said to have undergone training as a security agent for hire. Click here for the latest political news