The Nyeri government has condemned the ongoing demolition of markets and kiosks in the area by the Kenya National Highways Authority. On Sunday night, Kenha officials demolished stall at Chaka and Kiganjo markets, leading to loss of goods worth millions of shillings. Traders at the market said they were not given notice as required before their stalls were demolished. Trader Jane Wanjiku said she woke up in the morning to find the stalls destroyed. On Saturday night, the officials had demolished structures in Karatina town. Kenha has also pulled down signboards, billboards and kiosks along the Karatina-Marua–Nanyuki road to pave way for construction of a dual carriageway from Kenol to Isiolo. “While we support building of the dual carriageway to Isiolo, we strongly object to the barbaric way Kenha officials have gone about these Karatina, Chaka and Kiganjo demolitions,” governor Mutahi Kahiga said on Monday in Karatina. He said the county government has identified an alternative site for traders to relocate and said his government will grade, gravel and compact the area ready for resettlement of the traders. Kahiga said the affected 40 traders have been given a start-up capital. “We have allowed the Kwa Ngurue (Kiganjo) families to move into our houses near the Public Work’s offices in Kiganjo. The Department of Social Services will be providing food and basic needs to these affected six families,” he said. Resident Brian Githinji said he does not understand why Kenha demolished the Chaka market while the new Sh1 billion market being constructed by the national government is not even ten per cent done. “Do we really have leaders in Nyeri? Why deny so many Kenyans a livelihood?” he asked. The governor said he has contacted all those involved at the national government, as the county government was not consulted before the demolitions neither were traders given notices. “Kenha should have consulted us and given the traders notice so we can settle them elsewhere. We are looking for alternative place for the more than 100 traders affected to continue with their businesses,” he said. Mathira MP Rigathi Gachagua also criticised the demolition, saying they were malicious.