A good number of politicians find it hard to make new headways once they lose elections. And considering that elections in Kenya are an expensive affair, some end up broke, frustrated and indebted. But for former Ruiru MP Esther Gathogo, it only took two weeks to pick the pieces and move on. When she lost the Jubilee Party nominations to Simon King’ara in June 2016, her supporters advised her not to hang up her boots and instead defend the seat in the August general election as an independent candidate. She almost bought the idea, but when she discussed the matter with her family, they all agreed that it was risky to run and win as an independent candidate in a Jubilee stronghold. “Though I agreed to pull out of the race, I did not have an idea what to do next. And since I’ve never believed in staying idle all my life, I had to think of the next route to take. Though the party had promised losers appointments in government, I knew deep inside me that they would not be able to accommodate everyone and I needed another option,” the former MP told the Star during this interview at her Kahawa Sukari home, where she runs Jowath Event Solutions. She initially thought of starting a beauty shop. But then she remembered that back in 2007, when she entered politics as a nominated councillor and later became the deputy mayor of the then Ruiru municipality, she had ventured into the event management business. She had done well until she joined politics and the business went down as a result of her changed priorities. It was also hard to make money through the venture since as a politician, most people believed in borrowing rather than renting, as Kenyans are well known for expecting goodies from politicians.  GETTING STARTED “It is after much consideration that I made the decision to go back to event management, since I was no longer in active politics and needed something to engage myself in,” Gathogo said. “The first person I approached was a friend who was in the business, who gave me a lot of encouragement. She told me the business had become lucrative, though competitive, and if I wanted to succeed, I had to invest heavily to offer excellent services. She told me that best materials for tents and chairs and other services were only available in China.” Another of her friends who is in the public transport business wanted to introduce her to the venture, and she even offered to give her one of her buses but she declined because her mind was already made up. The friend then connected her to a Kenyan living in China, who would show her where to get the best of what she wanted to fulfil her dream. “Two weeks after losing the nominations, I was on my way to China with my own savings, which I would otherwise have spent in the campaign had I decided to run as an independent candidate. I spent a week in China and loaded my cargo and headed back home, determined to succeed,” she said. “A week after my arrival, Interior CS Joseph Nkaisery passed on. The company that had been contracted to manage the funeral was overwhelmed and they approached me for back-up, and I secured my first contract,” the former MP said. Later I was given a major event at KICC, where I made good money and from then there was no going back, and I have no regrets at all,” she said. Currently her company owns 4,000 chairs, including VIP chairs, a good number of tents, carpets and cutlery, which she leases out to individuals, groups or other event organisers who normally have shortages. She has managed to employ 25 people on casual basis and has 10 permanent employees. She has also bought a lorry to help in delivery of tents and chairs without having to borrow from any bank. Her joy is that most of her employees  are former unemployed youth and women from Ruiru, who are now earning income. She is also recruiting people with disabilities since her calling, and which was also her main reason for joining politics, is to uplift vulnerable people and those with challenges in life. She is training her staff in public relations and other disciplines associated with event management. Jowath Event Solutions is also engaged in making tents for sale.  GOING BACK TO POLITICS When asked whether she intends to go back to politics, the former legislator smiled widely and said going back to elective politics is not in her mind at the moment, since her main desire is to interact and work with people, which she is doing comfortably in her current role. “The hustles of politics are too tedious and demanding, and I am currently very comfortable with what I am doing. I am particularly happy that I am now playing an active role in my church, something I was not able to do when in active politics. I also have quality time to be with my family, something which was a bit difficult when I was in politics,” she said. “In fact, two of my children are with me in this business, though not on fulltime basis, since they are in college. When the right time comes, I will weigh the options but at the moment, I’m fully in business. “I’m, however, proud of what I did both as a deputy mayor and member of Parliament.” Her advice to election losers is not to lose track of their ambitions out of politics, and be ready to pick the pieces and go on because life does not end with politics. The former MP urged women, youth and people with disabilities to take advantage of the 30 per cent procurement rule and register their businesses to secure government contracts.