ANC has ruled out the possibility of merging with Ford Kenya as earlier envisaged over suspicion of infiltration by Deputy President William Ruto. Party secretary general Barrack Muluka on Thursday said although the party was still committed to the earlier merger plans with eyes on the 2022 polls, “the body language of Ford Kenya suggests the contrary”. Signs the planned merger could be on the rocks emerged on Wednesday last week when ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi told off his Ford Kenya counterpart Moses Wetang’ula over his party’s association with Ruto. “I am happy that Wetang’ula has said that the merger is on course. I want to remind him and he knows that Ruto is a competitor. We cannot organise ourselves and unite and go to a competitor. What type of science is this? I have spoken,” he said. Mudavadi spoke in Kakamega during the funeral service for 34 victims of the Fort Ternan bus crash. Wetang’ula was among the Luhya leaders present. Former Kakamega senator and Ford Kenya deputy leader Boni Khalwale said then that he was in talks with President Uhuru Kenyatta and the DP to support a Luhya candidate in 2022. He formally joined the DP’s camp on Sunday. Khalwale was part of the merger technical committee. The merger was to culminate in the formation of a single political vehicle that would bring the Luhya votes in one basket ahead of 2022. But Muluka said failure by Wetang’ula to rebuke Khalwale’s dalliance with the DP meant he had approved of it and puts the merger plans in jeopardy. “Maybe we as ANC may merge with Ford Kenya supporters and not leadership,” he said. Muluka said ANC remains steadfast on the ideals and aspirations of NASA. “We have lost ODM but its members are ashamed to declare they have joined Jubilee. Wiper is standing outside government doors waiting for leftovers. We had strong faith in Ford Kenya, but their language is not what we stand for,” he said. Muluka asked Khalwale to lobby for Wetang’ula to become Ruto’s running mate instead of barking Mudavadi’s name. Political commentator Isaac Wanjekeche said Mudavadi should go into the merger at his own peril, “as the partner’s body language indicates he plans to work with Ruto,” he said.