The stress of juggling work and family commitments could make it much harder for a woman to become pregnant, according to new research. A study of almost 5,000 women trying for a baby found those who reported feeling the most pressure from commitments were 25 percent less likely to conceive. The study by Boston University adds to growing evidence concerning the risks daily lifestyle stress poses to people's health. Lead author Amelia Wesselink, an epidemiologist, said more healthcare providers should be counseling women trying for a baby about the very real benefits of striking a healthy work-life balance, and help them come up with ways to do so. 'Although this study does not definitely prove stress causes infertility, it does provide evidence supporting the integration of mental health care in preconception guidance and care,' Wesselink, a doctoral student, said. The finding was based on 4,769 women aged 21 to 45 and 1,272 men aged 21 or over who were taking part in the Pregnancy Study Online (PRESTO). It followed couples for 12 months, or until conception. The phenomenon was not identified in the men. None had a history of infertility or had been trying to conceive for more than six menstrual cycles. The American and Canadian participants' psychological wellbeing was measured using an instrument called the perceived stress scale (PSS). Thoughts and feelings were assessed on ten items designed to discover how unpredictable, uncontrollable and overwhelming an individual finds their life circumstances. Doctoral student Wesselink and colleagues found women with PSS scores of at least 25 were 13 percent less likely to conceive than those marked under 10. However, her team also found couples who took part were about 25 percent less likely to conceive when the man's PSS score was under 10 - and the women's was 20 or higher. According to Wesselink, it is the first study to suggest 'partner stress discordance' may affect the likelihood of conception. But she added this finding was imprecise and speculative. The association between stress and infertility was strongest among participants who had been trying for no more than two menstrual cycles before joining PRESTO than those who had been trying for three or more. Younger women under 35 also tended to find it more difficult becoming pregnant if they were under pressure. The items referred to the past month, with five response choices ranging from 0 (never) to 4 (very often), up to a total of 40, with a higher total score indicating a higher level of perceived stress. Both partners completed the PSS at the start, and the women also did it every two months during the follow up. The initial questionnaires also included a range of demographic and behavioural factors including race or ethnicity, household income, diet, sleep and frequency of intercourse. Wesselink, of the Boston University School of Public Health, said 20 to 25 percent of women and 18 to 21 percent of men of reproductive age in the US report daily stress. Previous studies have suggested this can reduce fertility, but few have examined the link among couples. Wesselink said: 'While some epidemiologic studies support the hypothesis that stress can adversely affect fertility, few prospective studies have assessed the association in couples from the general population.' The latest findings published in the American Journal of Epidemiology showed PSS scores were about 1 point higher among women at the outset, on average. These then remained fairly constant. Wesselink and colleagues said if the link between stress and conception is causal, a small proportion could be due to decreased frequency of sex and increased menstrual cycle irregularity. The researchers did not find an association between men's PSS score and the likelihood of conceiving. Added Wesselink: 'Higher female PSS scores were associated with slight reductions in fecundability (fertility). Male PSS scores were not substantially associated with fecundability.' Previous research by another US team suggested higher levels of the hormone cortisol, produced when people are under stress, prevent women ovulating - making them unable to conceive. They said women with hectic jobs were those most at risk - and are often most in denial about the stress in their lives. They also found simple 'talking therapies' - known as cognitive behavioral therapy - can reverse the effect of stress and boost a woman's chances of becoming pregnant. Last year a UK study of Health and Safety Executive figures found women suffer far more work-related stress than men. There were 1,880 cases of female work-related stress per 100,000 workers in 2016/17 - 60 per cent higher than men (1,170 cases per 100,000 workers). Women aged 35-44 reported the highest rates of work-related stress. This is the age group most likely to be juggling family responsibilities with the demands of their career. Nursing, teaching, midwifery and welfare professions – which all contain a high number of female workers – were the occupations reporting the most cases of stress. Heavy workloads, lack of support, bullying and changes in the office were the most common causes. Click here for the latest political news