Politician Don Bosco Gichana has maintained he will go ahead with his thanksgiving ceremony at Gusii Stadium on Friday. This is despite Kisii security chiefs saying he has not notified them of the event. Gichana, who was released from a remand prison in Tanzania recently, plans to 'thank the people of Kisii for agitating for his release from prison.' Kisii County Commissioner Godfrey Kigochi said they were not aware of the meeting, setting the ground for a major showdown. Kigochi said Gichana has not booked the venue for the rally. However, on Thursday evening, Gichana's people were spotted putting up the main stand at the venue. "As far as I'm concerned, the thanksgiving is on. The county commissioner should not be used by my detractors," he told the Star on the phone. "The county government is aware of the meeting and there is no security threat." He added: "People should not get scared. I have not declared any interest in politics. At the moment, I want to spend time with my children not to engage in politics." He added that the two functions, including his late mother Celine Nyaboke's memorial, will not be political. Nyaboke died on May 2, 2016, when Gichana was in prison. The mass will be held at Rikenye in Marani, Kitutu Chache North constituency. Kakamega Catholic Diocese Bishop Joseph Obanyi is expected to preside over the event. "We shall have politicians from ODM, Wiper, Jubilee, and other parties. We have agreed that there will be no politics in the two functions," Gichana said. "It is too early to start talking about 2022," the politician added. He said Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka, Ford Kenya leader Moses Wetangula, Kisii spokesman Simba Arati, Arusha Urban MP Godbless Lema are among leaders expected at the functions. Gichana came to the country three weeks ago and has been holding meetings with politicians. He met DP William Ruto at the latter's Karen office on Thursday. He had also met Wetangula and Kalonzo among others. Gichana was arrested and pleaded guilty to money laundering charges. The politician was fined Sh13 million following his arrest over the said charges on March 29, 2013. Read: Tanzania releases Don Bosco Gichana on Sh13.7m fine Click here for the latest political news 