Kenya's department of Immigration has standard clearance procedures at all points of entry into the country for all arrivals. The first point after any passenger disembarks from an aircraft is Immigration clearance where all travel documents are scrutinised for all nationals. After clearance by Immigration officials, one is presumed to have legally entered Kenya. Passengers then proceed to the Arrivals Hall for baggage clearance. This is an equally important area where all luggage is subjected to screening before clearance. Here Customs and Kenya Revenue Authority officials are posted to ensure compliance with the law for all luggage entering the country. All checked baggage is screened by X-ray machines and sniffer dogs for prohibited items such as drugs, animal trophies, etc. The anti-narcotics team and Kenya Wildlife Service officials are also present. Anti-terrorism officers are also present for document checks, while visas depends on one's citizenship. It is at this stage that declarations are made and those with different currencies disclose the details. Residents may import as much as Sh500,000 to cover expenses upon re-entry into Kenya. Foreign currencies exceeding $10,000 must be declared. Non-residents may import local and foreign currencies without restrictions but amounts exceeding $10,000 must be declared at the point of entry. Passengers of 16 years of age or older can freely import one-half pound of tobacco or 200 cigarettes or 50 cigars; one bottle of an alcoholic beverage and pint of perfume. But it is prohibited to import fruit, vegetables, poultry, meat and fresh animal products. It is also prohibited to import any firearm and any imitation or toy firearms. Firearms and ammunition require a police permit. Arriving guests whose destination is Nairobi must undergo a health clearance by port of entry health and then immigration officers. Those without yellow fever certificates are vaccinated before immigration clearance. Immigration has several desks: For Kenyans, diplomats, East Africans nationals and other nationals. Connecting passengers take a different route. They proceed to a different screening point before proceeding to their boarding gates. These gates have various screening measures depending on the destination and corresponding threat levels. No airport tax is levied on passengers upon embarkation at the airport. The chairman of the Association of Corporate Industrial Security Professionals spoke to the Star Click here for the latest political news