Ugunja MP Opiyo Wandayi has rejected any attempts to subject Ugenya MP Chris Karan to party nominations should the Supreme Court order a by-election in the constituency. Wandayi said while Karan is still in court battling for his seat, a section of ODM members in Ugenya are already talking of party nominations in the event of a by-election. National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi declared Ugenya constituency seat vacant but MP Karan obtained an order to battle the case challenging his victory in the Supreme Court. Former Ugenya MP David Ochieng challenged Karan’s victory at the High Court and the Court of Appeal successfully, but Karan was not satisfied by the two courts and moved to the Supreme Court. The High court and Court of Appeal had ruled that Karan’s campaign was “perverted” and that the August 2017 vote in Ugenya was “compromised”. “I want to tell those mooting for nominations in Ugenya in case of a by-election before 2022 general elections to look for other avenues to front their candidates,” Wandayi said. He wondered why some ODM leaders have become so gullible one year after they danced to the tune of six-piece during the General Election. “Instead of supporting their own who is still struggling with the court battle they are already talking of fresh nomination in Ugenya,” Wandayi said. However, Karan is confident of maintaining the seat, promising to show his opponents dust no matter the court ruling. Karan regretted that many people have failed to differentiate between his soft-spoken personality and his political side, insisting that his political side is not that soft. “I want to call on the people of Ugenya who trusted me with the seat to remain calm as I continue fighting the court battles,” Karan said. The two spoke during the launch of Ugunja constituency strategic plan 2018-2023 where Wandayi insisted that being a stakeholder in Siaya county, he will not sit back and watch things go wrong in Ugenya. Wandayi’s sentiment comes in the wake of speculations about a group of ODM leaders planning to kick Karan out of the race in case of a by-election in Ugenya through fresh nomination. Those toying with the idea claim residents have not felt Karan’s leadership in the one year he has been in the office. They added they fear David Ochieng might take the seat if left to square it out with Karan in case of a by-election. That is why they are calling for a fresh nomination to put Karan aside.