Former Nairobi governor Evans Kidero has applied to the court to have Mulki Abdi Umar — an EACC investigator — punished for lying under oath. Under a certificate of urgency, the governor has asked the court to also declare the seizure of his property illegal and unconstitutional on grounds of perjury. He says Umar lied to the court by linking him to property that he doesn’t own and wants the claims struck out, as well as expunged from court records. Kidero avers in yesterday’s application that the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission investigator, who is an advocate of the High Court, had knowingly sworn an affidavit with claims she cannot prove. He wants the court to order Umar to attend court for cross-examination on the issues she raised in the affidavit. “Umar has not stated the information and grounds of belief to justify her deposition on the said matters,” Kidero, through his lawyer Tom Ojienda, says in the 14-page application. Read: Standoff as detectives camp at Kidero's Muthaiga home “She is not a lay witness. As an advocate of the High Court, who is an officer of the court, she is under obligation to observe the duty of candour and avoid misconduct and commission of the offence of perjury.” The former governor argues it is not the first time Umar has acted in breach of professional code. He accuses the officer of tampering with a court file with orders that stopped a freeze of his accounts. Kidero cites the 2016 case, in which he complained to EACC before alerting the court that the said officer had expunged the court order. Umar was accused of replacing the order with another one from a court which did not have jurisdiction over the matter. An appendix of yesterday’s application shows that chief magistrate Eda Agade in February 2016 ruled that: “The matter is touching on court records which were taken away without authority of the court.” Last month, EACC detectives raided Kidero’s home in Muthaiga and a private office in Westlands and seized several documents. He earlier told the court the commission used a faulty warrant to search his home. Kidero has sought an extension of the order stopping the EACC from executing the September 19 warrant. Read: Kidero papers taken after EACC searches home, office for 10hrs The former governor, who has rubbished EACC claims that he is worth Sh9 billion, termed the figure as an “exaggerated desktop values of the properties” and one that was reached without professional evaluation reports. “The depositions in Umar’s affidavit contain matters which are scandalous, irrelevant, or oppressive. Nothing could be more negligent, malicious and an utter show of bad faith,” he says. “The claims demonstrate that she has misconducted herself and is liable to be dealt with by this court.” Kidero, in an affidavit on October 11, said the claims by EACC are a clear show of the malice and witch-hunt against him. He accused the commission of acting in bad faith, abuse of office, intimidation and harassment. The former county chief cited Muthaiga Heights, Yala Towers, Mideya Gardens on Riara Road, and a property on Riverside Drive as those that the anti-graft agency wrongly associated him with. He has also denied links to Rusinga court in Lavington and a plot in Kisumu among other property. “The investigations herein are but a fishing expedition. It is no wonder the EACC is purporting to investigate all my properties including the ones acquired as early as the year 1987,” he said in the affidavit. More: Searches at Kidero’s premises are legal, graft body tells court Click here for
the latest political news