Sweden based duo of Mary Kinuthia and Christine Nafula made a return to the Harambee Starlets team as head coach David Ouma named a 32 player provisional squad for the forthcoming Africa women’s Cup of Nations set for November 17 to December 1 in Ghana. The duo, who ply their trade with Daldem IF, missed the qualifying matches and the Cecafa women’s Challenge held in May but were roped in the team based on their heroics depicted in the Swedish Division II league. The midfielders joined the Swedish side in August and netted on their debut. Their return is set to give Ouma a selection headache in his star-studded midfield. The two are joined by other returnees—Janet Bundi, who turns out for Eldoret Falcons and Marjolene Nekesa, who recently penned a professional contract in the United State of America. The squad, which is set to be whittled down later, is largely made up of players who took part in the qualifiers against Uganda and Equatorial Guinea, as well as the 2018 Cecafa women’s Championships in Rwanda. Regulars Neddy Atieno, Mwanahalima Adam, Cynthia Shilawatso, Wendy Achieng, Mercy Achieng, Esse Akida and Corazone Aquino will have their vast experience relied on when Ouma will rally the girls to their second appearance in the showpiece. The team, currently facing tough financial times, is set to hit camp on Monday and will play two friendly matches before jetting out to Ghana on November 14. According to the Football Kenya Federation, the team requires a minimum of Sh43 million to prepare for the eight-team tournament. Kenya are placed in Pool ‘B’ alongside defending champions Nigeria, South Africa and Zambia. Full Squad Goalkeepers—Pauline Atieno (Makolanders), Maureen Shimuli (Wadadia), Annette Kundu (Eldoret Falcons), Monica Karambu (Thika Queens), Diana Tembesi (Wiyeta Girls); Defenders: Lilian Adera (Vihiga Queens), Wendy Achieng (Spedag), Dorcas Shikobe (Oserian), Phelistus Kadari (Vihiga Queens), Wincate Kaari (Thika Queens), Elizabeth Ambogo (Spedag), Maureen Khakasa (Trans Nzoia Falcons), Juliet Auma (Thika Queens), Vivian Nasaka (Vihiga Queens); Midfielders: Jentrix Shikangwa (Wiyeta Girls), Mary Kinuthia (Gaspo Youth), Sheril Angachi (Gaspo Youth), Ruth Ingosi (Eldoret Falcons), Corazone Aquino (Vihiga Queens), Elizabeth Wambui (Gaspo Youth), Martha Amunyolete (Trans Nzoia Falcons), Christine Nafula (Gaspo Youth), Cynthia Shilwatso (Vihiga Queens), Mercy Achieng (Thika Queens), Cheris Avilia (Spedag); Forwards: Neddy Atieno (Makolanders), Esse Akida (Ramat Hasharon), Mwanahalima Adam (Thika Queens), Janet Bundi (Eldoret Falcons), Terry Engesha (Vihiga Queens), Phoebe Aketh (Vihiga Qeens) and Marjolene Nekesa (USA).