STARRING: Kevin Hart, Tiffany Haddish, Rob Riggle, Taran Killam, Romany Malco, Keith David GENRE: Comedy RELEASE DATE: September 28  Teddy Walker drops out of high school because he finds himself unable to concentrate on studying for his finals. Later, Teddy becomes a successful barbeque grill salesman at a Hypermarket. Although Teddy is not well educated, he is smart enough to come up with financial plans that make him look more successful than he actually is. His good financial impression allows him to date wealthy women. When Teddy decides to propose to his very wealthy girlfriend Lisa, he accidentally blows up the store. With future promotion prospects lost and the store remaining shut because the manager ran off with the insurance money, Teddy is left jobless. He asks his friend Marvin if he could set him up a job at his investment firm. Marvin tells Teddy that although he has the street smarts that are valuable in this line of work, he still requires a GED (high school diploma). Teddy is forced to go back to his old school to find a way of getting his diploma. Unfortunately, the new principal is Stewart, a boy Teddy bullied back in his time in high school. Teddy is able to sign up for night school under the instruction of the unorthodox night school teacher Carrie. Carrie’s class is an eccentric group of people who, for one reason or another, dropped out of high school. Even with his life’s success, Teddy still struggles to concentrate in school. But with the aid of Carrie’s unconventional teaching methods, Teddy is on his path to get some proper education. Hart and Haddish are a dynamic duo whose styles of comedy are practically the same. Their comedic sharp-tongued banter is always funny to watch and their ability to make you laugh at themselves is what makes their work stand out. Bringing these two comedians together was inspired. However, if only the writing was up to their level. The story seemed to subdue the comedians’ personas who often, in the film, outshone their characters. But the movie does get a few laughs along the way.  Star Rating: 3/5