NTSA Director General Francis Meja has criticised the courts for uplifting the night travel ban following the gruesome road accident that claimed 50 lives along the Londiani - Muhoroni highway on Wednesday. In the 5 am accident at Fort Ternan tunnel in Kericho, the driver of the bus lost control of the vehicle, veered off the road and rolled. The bus which left Nairobi at 6 pm was heading to Kakamega. Meja faulted the sacco for allowing a PSV vehicle to operate at night without a permit. He said the Western Cross Express Sacco and the driver of the bus will have to answer in court. "They must be charged," Meja said. Meja banned night travel by PSVs after 36 people perished at Salgaa blackspot during the New Year's eve. He directed all PSVs to travel between 6 am and 7 pm. "December tulipinga marufuku safari za usiku lakini kuna mtu alienda kupinga kortini nayo ikaamuru tubadilishe," he said on NTV. (We banned night travel in December but someone went to court. The court lifted the ban). "It is a sad state of affairs, because we come up with ways of preventing fatalities on the road, but we always face opposition," Meja said. In January, activist Okiya Omtata went to court to challenge the NTSA ban, terming it vague and discriminatory towards long-distance travellers. On February 12, the High Court extended orders suspending the ban. Read: [VIDEO] Death toll in Fort Ternan crash in Kericho climbs to 50 Also read: Uhuru, Ruto and Raila mourn Fort Ternan crash victims Related: NTSA bans PSV night travel after Salgaa crash See: Matatus still can travel at night, for now - court More on this: [VIDEO] NTSA maps 273 accident black spots, 199 in Northern Corridor Police are hunting for the bus driver of the bus who escaped after the accident. Meja said the driver switched off the speed limiter after the accident. "Ajali ilipofanyioka hivi tu punde walizima ile chombo cha kumpima ile speed ya gari sasa hatuwezi jua ile speed ilikuwa inatumika," he said. (Immediately after the accident, they switched off the speed limiter, now we cannot know the exact speed). Meja said the authority's engineers are at the scene of the accident conducting investigations. On the roof of the bus being ripped off, he said vehicles are supposed to be up to standard. Meanwhile, in a report launched in Narok on Tuesday, Traffic Commandant Samuel Kimaru said 2,345 have died in the road accidents since January compared to 2,153 who died last year in the same period. The traffic boss said this is an increase of eight per cent. Click here for the latest political news              