Lugari MP Ayub Savula and former Government Advertising Agency boss Dennis Chebitwey are this morning expected to be charged with the Sh2.5 billion advertising scam. This comes even as former Information Communication Technology (ICT) Principal Secretary Sammy Itemere surrendered himself to Karen police station yesterday after DPP Nordin Hajj recommended his arrest. The lawmaker, who was arrested by detectives from DCI’s office on Friday at an entertainment spot in Nairobi, has been in police custody for the last three days. Chebitwey has been in custody since his arrest on Saturday. Savula is to be charged alongside his two wives — Melody Ringera and Hellen Kemboi. Both wives are still at large. Detectives are hunting for them to face joint charges of conspiring to steal Sh122,335,500 from the Ministry of Information Communication and Technology. Read: Savula arrested over graft after rooting for execution of suspects Ringera and Kemboi are directors of M/S the Sunday Publishers Ltd, Melsay Company Ltd, Johnnewton Communications, the Express Media Group, NoBurns Protection Agencies Ltd, Cross ContinentsVentures Ltd and Shieldlock Ltd. The firms allegedly benefited from the irregular payments.Three other suspects believed to have conspired with the MP to steal from the government, among them a former Principal Secretary and a departmental head, are on the run. The DCI launched investigations in August after outraged media managers appealed to the Director of Public Prosecutions Noordin Haji over a debt of more than Sh2.5 billion, which GAA has failed to pay over several years despite services being rendered. Read: DCI arrests Ayub Savula over fraud at State advertising agency Read: DCI arrests Ayub Savula over fraud at State advertising agency The GAA was established in July 2015 to handle advertisements from all state ministries and departments. The agency was created to handle all government advertisements in electronic and print media. It publishes MyGov, a weekly insert distributed in the dailies. Savula had earlier said that stealing Sh1 billion is equivalent to a murderer. 