Embu leaders on Saturday held their first successful unity meeting. The meeting, which brought together politicians, bishops and business leaders among other representatives, was the first of its kind since 2013. Former Cooperative Development Minister Joe Nyagah told Governor Martin Wambora to meet his enemies for the sake of unity and development in Embu. He asked the governor to capitalise on his mandate as the county chief and go to any length to ensure all the Embu subtribes, leaders and residents are united. “Governor, I know there are very many people who are angry with this meeting. It is your job to bring down the political temperature now. Start holding night meetings with all those groups, and slowly, you will find that it works. I know nothing but politics. You have all those instruments available to you,” Nyagah said. He made the remarks at the Kenya School of Government, Embu campus, during the reconciliatory meeting convened by Wambora. Nyagah, who has been pushing for the meeting, said elected leaders should be given a chance to execute their mandate without interference. He said there was a lot of pressure on him not to attend but he opted to show his support in unifying communities living in Embu. Nyagah urged Wambora to ensure equal and fair distribution of resources and job opportunities. Other leaders, among them Senator Njeru Ndwiga, legislators Geofrrey Kingangi, Jane Wanjuki, former PS Cyrus Njiru and former MP Njeru Kathangu, supported the unity push, noting that the resolutions of the meeting will help fix problems the Embu people face. Former senator Lenny Kivuti did not honour Wambora’s invitation. Instead, he held another meeting at a local hotel, where he said the leaders’ meeting was intended to humiliate him and compel him to drop his appeal against the governor’s election at the Supreme Court. Kivuti confirmed he was invited but declined to attend, saying some of his supporters were not invited. He asked why Wambora was in a hurry to organise a leaders’ meeting instead of waiting for the Supreme Court ruling. Kivuti said there cannot be unity in Embu without development. Norman Nyaga, who joined Kivuti, accused Wambora of organising the meeting without consulting all the players. He added that the meeting should have been organised by a non-partisan person or group. The meeting comes after several leaders called for all elected politicians and former aspirants to end prolonged political wrangles. Former PS Njiru, who contested against Wambora in last year’s election, former senatorial aspirant Alexander Mundigi and former parliamentary aspirant Antonio Njagi last month welcomed the governor’s recent declaration that he is ready to work with other leaders. Njiru said Wambora should be respected, recognised and supported to enable him carry out his duties. “Embu has had enough fighting before and after the election. This is not good for any county,” he said. Njiru said, however, Kivuti had a right to go to the Supreme Court. Mundigi had urged Kivuti to withdraw his appeal and reconcile with Wambora for peace to prevail in Embu. Njagi said unity will help the county develop.