Principals have been directed to keep exam papers in classrooms where candidates can see them in a new move to curb cheating. The Kenya National Examinations Council said the papers should be directly taken to the classrooms under the watch of police officers. Principals were previously allowed to keep the papers in a safe location within their schools. Students will sit two exam papers in a day. The new directive requires both papers taken to the classroom. “Ensure the materials for the second exam remain on the same table in full view of the candidates while the exam for the first session is in progress,” the Knec circular reads. The circular dated October 20 was sent to headteachers and principals who are the exam centre managers. The heads are tasked with collecting the exam papers each day at 6am and taking them back immediately the test ends. “Soon after the exams are completed, we expect the papers to be returned to the containers within the shortest time possible,” Knec chairman George Magoha told the Star on the phone yesterday. Read: No phones, school visits during KCSE and KCPE, teachers warned If there’s any delay in doing so, the center manager and supervisor will be required to give an explanation”. The exams are collected from subcounty headquarters in the morning and returned in the evening. “Ensure that armed security officers stay at close proximity with the materials throughout the day until they are returned to the container,” the circular says. Knec has also banned the use of phones by invigilators and supervisors. Only headteachers and principals are allowed to have phones but they are now allowed to enter exam rooms with their phones. Some 1.6 million candidates are expected to sit their national exams this year. The KCSE exam began this week with students tackling practical tests. KCPE starts on Tuesday next week, a day after rehearsals. KCSE theory exams begin on November 5. This year’s exams will be done under strict watch with the government warning teachers and parents against aiding cheating. Education CS Amina Mohamed said anyone found culpable will be arrested on the spot, charged and prosecuted. Amina said no parent will be allowed to visit their children in boarding schools during the examination period. She said parents will be personally liable for children found with mobile phones while in school. “Such candidates will be suspended,” Amina said. See: Amina to schools: 'Dare you interfere, try to cheat in exams!' Click here for the latest political news