Did former Law Society of Kenya chief executive officer Apollo Mboya decline to enjoin some patriotic Kenyans in his suit against Kenya Power? Some angry Kenyans were heard bitterly protesting that Apollo strategically ensured that he was all alone in the case in a selfish strategy to hog the limelight. They say his case was packaged as a class action suit when it wasn’t. But even more disheartening to them is that the lawyer accepted an out-of -court settlement with the power firm. They claim Apollo’s was a raw deal for Kenyans who had invested their hopes and contributed information to him believing it was “representative action”. Part of the agreement was that Kenya Power will stick to tariffs approved by the Energy Regulatory Commission and set up billing query centres countrywide. A vocal governor has suddenly become insecure and turned his bodyguard into his taster who samples almost everything before he eats. According to close aides, the county chief no longer takes anything, including alcohol, before his bodyguard sips it. His drinking buddies are screened before they are allowed to sit at his usually overflowing table. The surprise change in the governor’s behaviour has his associates worried and guessing what he might silently be going through. Baringo senator and Kanu boss Gideon Moi is scheduled to visit Homa Bay county this weekend, sources tell Corridors. It’s said that Gideon will preside over some fundraising organised by a two-time MP who is salivating at the seat of governor. The information has scared some people prospecting for the same job who believe the MP has begun campaigning. So hot is the battle for the Homa Bay seat that it’s believed to be the genesis of the turmoil in the county assembly. A well-known TV journalist has become the talk of town for his questionable type of journalism. Social media has been awash with claims that he is using his platform for “cleansing” people. Over the weekend, the man flew to a neigbouring country to interview a top government official. Corridors has learnt that the man visited various critical installations of the world’s youngest nation in a closely guarded itinerary. Word is that the mission was to redeem the image of top government officials named in a recent damaging investigative story. Was the protest by some Bomet MPs yesterday pre-planned? Sources tell Corridors that the MPs who walked out as President Uhuru Kenyatta was addressing the conference are not on good terms with Governor Joyce Laboso. They have been grumpy about how county affairs are run and are often missing in action. So what is the cause of the grandstanding? Click here for the latest political news