Financial institutions lost up to Sh21.37 billion ($210 million) in the last financial year through cyber crime bringing to the fore how online banking platforms have exposed banks and Savings and Credit Co-operative Societies (Saccos). "Losses are significant, when compared with the vulnerabilities, and they are experienced across the board in the finance sector," said Joseph Mathenge, chief operating officer at Serianu IT consultants. He spoke at the launch of the Africa Cyber Security Report 2017. The report found out that 50 per cent of Saccos do not have an established cyber security training programme, exposing its systems to losses through staff ignorance or deliberate criminal intentions. The report highlights the skills gap in cyber security, with 31 per cent in senior management level lacking the necessary knowledge to tackle cyber threats. At mid management level, 29 per cent of the managers have no skills in handling cyber threats. It shows that only 40 per cent of staff are trained but this happens only if there is a problem while 24 per cent of Sacco staff have never received training on cyber security. The report shone light on how different Saccos manage their cyber threats, indicating that 83 per cent prefer to manage their cyber security issues in-house. Only seven per cent outsource the service to an internet service provider. Overall, the highest demand for skilled cybersecurity professionals is within the banking sector, followed by insurance and Saccos whoa re worst affected. Peter Njuguna, chief manager supervision at Sacco Societies Regulatory Authority SASRA said Saccos must work to improve their interaction with customers in the Know Your Customer (KYC) segment. Among the Sasra guidelines on cyber security risk management is the need to report to the regulator all cyber security related incidences that are likely to disrupt Sacco operations for more than 12 hours. They are also supposed to report any financial losses of Sh200,000 or more, and have an incident response team along with backups to manage such occurrences.  