The Trinidadian journalist and historian CLR James records the Haitian revolution in his celebrated book, The Black Jacobins. Haiti is the first and only successful slave revolution in history. It created the first Black republic after a 13-year struggle led by Toussaint L’Ouverture. James reports that the slaves “defeated in turn the local whites and soldiers of the French monarchy, a Spanish invasion, a British expedition of some 60,000 men and a French expedition of similar size under [Napoleon] Bonaparte’s brother-in-law.” This transformation of Black slaves, “trembling in hundreds before a single white man…into a people able to organise themselves and defeat the most powerful nations of their day, is one of the great epics of revolutionary struggle and achievement,” James writes. Oppressed people do not need a saviour to deliver them. They are their own saviours. Kenyans live under oppressive conditions today, not unlike those of Haitian slaves. Most people struggle daily for basic needs while a tiny elite gorges itself on the fat of the land. This misery will not end on its own. Now, politicians are calling for a referendum to change the Constitution, ostensibly to end the suffering. Kenya’s Machiavellian political elite will always conjure up something to distract the masses from their miserable lives. The political classes keep a tight grip on the national conversation. You have the handshake. Building Bridges. Big Four agenda. War on corruption. And now a referendum. Many such gimmicks have gone by. Many more will be churned out. But no one will ever call a national dialogue on reducing the cost of living or ending poverty. Politicians feed the masses false hope while pursuing power. The people must never be allowed a chance to think through their collective pain how to end it. Our oppressors do the thinking for us. The narrative that the Constitution created many offices that have ballooned the cost of government is diversionary. A third of the annual budget disappears into big people’s pockets. Look at the obscene monies top bureaucrats are paid in salaries and perks. Consider the billions pumped into white elephant projects, from useless fish factories and markets in Central to the Sh7.3 billion Galana-Kulalu irrigation scheme, touted to produce 20 million bags of maize a year but now yielding a paltry 22,000. Think about the multimillion-shilling corruption scandals in every government department. And then the regime has over-borrowed for grand ‘legacy’ projects and now we suffer heavy taxes to repay the loans. The Constitution envisions scrapping the expensive and repressive colonial-era provincial administration. Uhuru retained it. He created Cabinet Administrative Secretary posts to reward political rejects and cronies. How is a referendum going to cure this rot? How is it going to end the greed, corruption and wastage? We have the perfect conditions for a revolution that would overhaul Kenya’s governance architecture. But this won’t be done by saviours — politicians whose sole interest is power. No significant transformation will happen until the people create and take charge of a national narrative based on their suffering. The oppressed people must do three things: One, identify their enemy, namely, the predatory elite. Two, craft a radical, realistic and people-based programme for change and mobilise around it. And three, be prepared to make the necessary sacrifices to realise the dream of a new order. Kenya’s public institutions and processes have long been captured by powerful forces, so one cannot use them to bring about radical change. Nor can one rely on the same devious politicians who are the chief beneficiaries of the status quo. Revolutionary forces must create or take advantage of alternative spaces to organise for transformation. The question to guide these efforts is this: How can our society be reorganised so that everyone has what they need for a decent life? The Haitian slaves broke the chains of their oppressors. Either that, or Kenya will continue to have a handful of obscenely rich people amidst mass poverty — regardless of the level of economic production or technological sophistication.