Raila Odinga’s appointment as the High Representative for Infrastructure in Africa is not a full time job: It is part time. It, therefore, does not stop him from either staying in Nairobi and Bondo, or going about with his current responsibilities, nor does it mean he will stay in Addis Ababa. And this is not the first time Raila has served the AU in such a high capacity. Recently he acted more or less as a roving ambassador to unite the South Sudan leaders in preparation for yet another AU negotiated peace in the young war-torn nation. Much earlier, he had played the same role in Cote d’Ivoire on behalf of the AU. Many Kenyans have held such similar responsibilities for the UN and the EU and they have never forsaken their jobs and responsibilities simply because they have been thus honoured. I know of Senator Sitswila Amos Wako, who has been a UN Rapporteur without forsaking his Senate seat. Quite often he had to spend some weeks in Geneva fulfilling his UN responsibilities. Very few Kenyans noticed his absence. I was a member of the UN Economic and Social Council Committee from 2003 to 2013 and still went ahead to serve as a minister for much of that period. But because Raila is Raila, anything he does must be seen to be larger than life. Were the praise singers gathered around Deputy President William Ruto to care to check on their facts they would not have been in a hurry to order Raila to quit Kenyan politics simply because he had been honoured by the AU to promote infrastructure across African countries. Having been the minister for Roads, Housing and Public works, as well as minister for Energy, the AU could not have made a better choice. Moreover, as Prime Minister in the coalition government he headed with President Mwai Kibaki, Raila co-ordinated all government functions. One would have thought, coupled with his go-getter ability, the AU must have done its homework properly to offer him this Pan-African responsibility. It must be remembered that in such inter-governmental and international organisations, such responsibilities are handled for a limited period. They do not obey the Kenyan civil service code of “permanent and pensionable.” It took President Uhuru Kenyatta to remind Raila’s detractors to keep off the issue “since there is nothing wrong giving the job to a Kenyan, even if it were a permanent job.” Jameni, does it require the President to call our politicians to order when we seem to ridicule ourselves on the platform in front of the whole world?  WARNING TO RUTO I have used the following warning before, and I want to use it with regard to my friend DP Ruto, in reference particularly to the zealousness with which some of his “political friends” promote his candidature for the presidency. Let me confess, the warning I am just about to sound is not original. I first heard it from former Attorney General Charles Njonjo, the Duke of Kabeteshire. I am sure William, “you know your enemies: God help you from your friends.” Being overly worried about Raila — if you consider him your enemy (which I don’t think he is) is not helping your public mission. More so if that public mission is to become President. I guess you simply score into an own goal whenever your friends join the chorus of condemning, caricaturing and belittling Raila. It is worse when you yourself join the chorus as well. However great he is, Raila, like Julius Caesar, has his own faults: So do all of us, including the President himself. But when you take a friend to pay dowry, that is the time to put on your best suit and be extremely well mannered. When you are in a bar having fun, you can say all sorts of things to each other. Kenyans are currently in a mood to discuss the merits and demerits of the current Constitution. Let us all try to be civil and orderly in discussing this important matter of constitutional reform. As it were, we are not in a bar. Let us assume we are gathered at our would-be in laws for a very serious discussion.  RAILA, RUTO IN CONSTITUTION MAKING Raila and Ruto played very important roles in the making of the current Constitution. Raila, of course, had been in the struggle for reforms with some of us much earlier, and the events of 2010 were simply part of a long process of reform, whose final outcome we are still searching for. But a tiger, like Wole Soyinka once wrote, need not shout about its tigritude: It bounces. Let us now all join hands and focus on this important discourse. I am therefore asking all parties interested in “capturing the presidency” to hold their horses for the time being. Let us focus on needed constitutional reforms that will help Kenyans live in a more perfect republic. Were you to ask me about the key fault line in our Constitution today, I would tell you it lies in the architecture of the Executive. It is faulty. It is dangerous. It is prone to nurturing the politics of exclusion. It engenders corruption and the corrosive culture of “it is our time to eat” whenever an ethnic faction captures the presidency. It tends to invite all political vultures to capture the highest echelons of state power whenever “their man” occupies State House so that, like flies, they can feed on good food and whatever is defecated thereafter! Our Treasury will never do its work properly, if we continue with the present architecture of the Executive. Even if we appoint a thousand and one dream teams or “non political Cabinet secretaries” the results will be the same — corruption, non productive debts, monies stashed in foreign accounts and run away inflation. To make the Executive work properly, as it is designed today, we must depend on electing “a good man” to that post, a kind of Mahatma Gandhi. This is taking a chance since a Mahatma Gandhi is not that easy to come by. Nor a Julius Nyerere for that matter.  We shall be safer with establishing systems of government that, by their very nature, are more prone to transparency, accountability and overall democratic governance. Depending on the subjective will of individuals is a little bit too risky, very prone to abuse of office as our presidential system has shown. We must debate the architecture of the Executive and cushion the debate away from the politics of positions and the next elections. I have been advocating for a parliamentary system of government in Kenya since 1990. And my position today has nothing to do with Raila or Ruto. Very soon I am going to make this very clear in a brief treatise so that Kenyans can have a healthy debate on this matter. Anybody mixing personality politics with the almost sacred duty of all Kenyans to shape their future through better governance is doing a great disservice to the intelligence of Kenyans. But I am also open to other people’s suggestions for any Executive system that can serve Kenyans better. But seeing even Americans beginning to question the powers of the President and how it can be so easily abused, making Congress even impotent at times, makes me even more determined to make Kenyans not to continue on that route.