Kirinyaga women and youth leaders have asked DPP Noordin Haji to prosecute Josephine Kabura for 'lying under oath' in her account of the NYS1 scandal. The group was drawn from the region's Maendeleo Ya Wanawake and the Kirinyaga Youth Empowerment Forum. They accused Kabura of soiling Governor Anne Waiguru's name when sh e(Waiguru) was Devolution Cabinet Secretary. Waiguru was accused of presiding over the loss of Sh791 million from the youth agency. Read: Waiguru was behind NYS deals - Josephine Kabura Also read: Waiguru threatens to expose authors of Kabura's NYS1 affidavit Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission (EACC) chief executive officer
Halakhe Waqo in September 2016 told the National Assembly’s Public Accounts Committee that the agency lost Sh1.8 billion. In an affidavit to EACC, Kabura implicated and adversely mentioned Waiguru in the scam. Appearing before the National Assembly Public Investment Committee, she further linked the Kirinyaga governor to the scandal. But MYWO chairlady Diana Wanja urged the DPP and EACC to commence investigations against Kabura to reveal who funded her to implicate Waiguru in the scandal. ''We want to know who used Kabura to link our governor in the NYS scandal. We are also surprised the investigating agencies have not taken action against her,'' she said. Youth leaders Beverly Nyawira and Bosco Gachangi took issue with the DPP for not taking action against the chief witness in the NYS scandal. They said this was regrettable "even after the EACC released to the public, Kabura's affidavit in the NYS scandal." The EACC on Tuesday gazetted that further investigations should be carried out into Kabura's affidavit. "EACC together with the DCI conducted investigations and established that the allegations made against the suspects were bereft of truth, were denied in totality and there was no evidence in support of the same." The anti-graft agency said a report was compiled and forwarded to the DPP on June 12 recommending that the complainant be charged with the offence of knowingly misleading a person. "On July 11, the Director of Public Prosecution returned the inquiry file recommending further investigations," EACC added. It is on these grounds that the women and youth leaders want Kabura arrested and charged. Waiguru resigned as Devolution CS in 2015 after she was adversely mentioned in the scandal. The governor earlier said she was a whistleblower and was not involved in the theft. ''We want to know who was using Kabura to soil Waiguru's name. We also want to know where Kabura took the money she was carrying in sacks,'' Gachangi said. Read: DPP right to order further probe into Kabura affidavit - Waiguru Click here for the latest political news 