The EACC is investigating at least 10 bank accounts suspected to belong to top civil servants as it seeks to unravel the mysterious payment of Sh1.2 billion to Era Two Thousand by three ministries. On Friday, the Star exclusively reported that EACC has been investigating circumstances under which two companies owned by one businessman were paid Sh1.173,234,004 by three different state departments within a span of eight months. The huge chunks of cash were wired into the suspect accounts, sometimes up to six deposits a day. The money was paid from the State departments of Interior, Youth Affairs, and Planning and Statistics. Evanson Thuo Waweru owns era Two Thousand Enterprises. According to court documents, the EACC covertly searched the accounts on suspicion that the payments may have been motivated by kickbacks. “There is urgent need to investigate the above mentioned account number through which suspected unexplained wealth may have been channelled through an /or banked,” forensic investigator Kimutai Langat said in court papers. The accounts the agency got orders to search include two at KCB and one at Equity Bank. The rest are with Barclay Bank at Harambee, Quensway, Nakuru East, Nyeri and Meru, Ruaraka and Moi Avenue branches. Read: EACC probes Sh1.2b payout to one man The anti-graft agency quizzed the heads of finance and procurement in the Interior ministry. Also grilled was a Mr Maina, the chief finance officer in the Special Programmes ministry, and Samuel Chimoto, senior finance officer in the Statistic department. Bank details show Era Two Thousand Enterprises was paid Sh34 million on June 29, 2016, in six tranches from the State Department of Planning. Seven days earlier, on June 22, 2016, the firm was paid Sh41.5 million in four tranches. “The evidence gathered in the preliminary investigations clearly demonstrates a typical case of corrupt dealing between the respondents and officials of the State Departments of Planning and Statistics, Youth Affairs and Interior,” EACC said in court papers. It said the huge transfers were followed by cheque withdrawals by the suspect and outward remittances to other companies such as Blue Urban Limited. EACC says it was alarmed by the confession of then Planning and Statistics PS Irungu Nyakera that his department had never given any tenders to Era Two Thousand Enterprises. “We’ve exhaustively perused our records and confirm that M/s Era Two Thousand Enterprises has never dealt with the State Department of Planning and Statistics,” Nyakera said on August 31 last year. Also Read: Prosecute 'big fish' to win corruption war, AG Paul Kihara tells EACC Click here for the latest political news