Facebook on Tuesday announced an overhaul of its Messenger smartphone app in an effort to simplify the service for its 1.3 billion monthly global users. The social network began rolling out a redesigned version featuring three tabs instead of nine, saying it was 'going back to its roots' seven years after the standalone app's launch. The firm revealed a recent study found 7 out of 10 (71%) people said simplicity is the top priority for them in a messaging app. 'We build one feature after another; they're piling up,' Messenger chief Stan Chudnovsky said of the service, which has grown from a simple messaging app to one that lets users make video calls, send money and more. The updated tabs allow users to navigate between their conversations under 'Chats,' stories and contacts at 'People,' and 'Discovery,' which is devoted to games and exchanges with businesses. The new Messenger features a 'dark mode' that lets people switch to white text on a black background. It has fewer 'tabs' - or words and icons to tap to get to different sections in the app. The previous version had nine, including 'messages,' ''active' to show ongoing conversations, 'groups,' ''games' and a 'discover' icon to find bots to chat with for everything from the weather to horoscopes to shopping. Facebook has positioned Messenger as a tool for businesses to efficiently handle customer questions or concerns. Talking to customers via the app is free - but businesses can also pay for Facebook ads that let customers start a conversation or visit their page with one click. Messenger is part of Facebook's effort to expand outside the social network -- particularly when it comes to staying relevant to mobile lifestyles and younger people, who have been moving away from the service. But the redesign also makes it clear that messages from businesses - and ads - are becoming increasingly important. Such messages are now front and center alongside messages with friends and other individuals. Stan Chudnovsky, head of product for messaging at Facebook, said the primary intent wasn't to elevate messaging with businesses. But he said that 'when people spend more and more time communicating with each other on a platform, inevitably that is where businesses need to be. It's almost like print happened and then businesses needed to be on print.' Facebook, of course, is working hard to nudge people and businesses in this direction, convincing them that chatting on Messenger is more efficient than, say, emailing, calling - or tweeting at - an airline, a clothing store or even your bank. One thing Facebook has always understood is the importance of human connections and interaction. Chudnovsky considers one-on-one communications a 'basic human need.' Considering that people use Messenger, and not the main Facebook service, for such interactions, does this mean Messenger is more important than Facebook? 'We don't take a position on what is more important,' Chudnovsky said. Still, considering that people no longer need a Facebook account to use Messenger, maybe some day it will be. Click here for the latest political news