Elisha Kiprop and Josephine Chepkoech are this year's winners of the 42 Kilometer Standard Chartered marathon. Kiprop won the race in two hours 17 minutes on Sunday morning followed by Julius Kiprono and Patrick Cheruiyot. "I thank the Standard Chartered marathon because it is the one that opened doors for me as an athlete, " Elisha said after finishing the race. Chepkoech finished in two hours 35 minutes followed by her cousin Cynthia Jerop. She said her focus will now be to take part in bigger events. "I thank God. The weather was good and I'm hoping next year I'll have a manager who will help me train for a bigger race," Chepkoech said. "I'm very happy because this is the first time I have participated in a full marathon having only run half marathons," she added.  Josephine Chepkoech crossing the line after winning women's 42km. /COURTESY The winners will take home Sh1.5 million each. Kiprop had previously participated in the marathon in 2010 where he finished in the fifth position and in 2014 where he came in second. Valerie Aiyabei won the female 21km race with Irene Kimais coming in second and Sylvia Kibet third. In the men's 21 km race, Mathew Kiprotich finished first in 1:04:57. He was followed by Paul Kibet and James Kipsang third. Every winner of the race will undergo a doping test to ensure no muscle stimulants were used. The initiative of the marathon is to raise funds to help children below 15 years who are visually impaired. Funds raised are channelled to the initiative dubbed 'Seeing is Believing'. More than 18,000 people participated in the Marathon including 80 elite athletes. In the CEO’s 3 km race category, Durand Guillaume Fairmont Hotels came in first. Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko finishing in the eighth position. Other participants were Nairobi woman rep Esther Passaris, Senators Aaron Cheryoit (Kericho), Kipchumba Murkomen ( Elgeyo Marakwet), Machakos Governor Alfred Mutua and US ambassador Bob Godec.  Fairmont Hotels CEO Durand Guillaume who emerged winner of the 3 km CEOs race. /COURTESY Click here for the latest political news