Top political leaders from Western have been urged to unite and front one of them for President in 2022. Ford Kenya secretary general Eseli Simiyu on Sunday said any presidential candidate from the region is likely to fail without the backing of the community’s leaders. He said it was unfortunate the region’s political history is littered with failed attempts at the presidency because of disunity. “Our history is being forgotten because we have always been vanquished. Only those who emerge victorious make history,” Eseli said in his Tongaren constituency. ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi and Ford Kenya’s Moses Wetang’ula are among top leaders from Western who are eying the presidency in 2022. Kakamega governor Wycliffe Oparanya has also said he will vie. Eseli asked the leaders to organise themselves into one political voice if one of them is to win. He said unity will give the chosen candidate a consolidated vote block to ascend to power. The MP said Luhyas have the numbers to influence presidential election. He said he had talked to Wetang’ula, Mudavadi, Devolution CS Eugene Wamalwa, Senate Speaker Kenneth Lusaka and the other leaders and asked them to unite behind one candidate. “It’s a must they come together and anoint one of them. If they do not do that, we shall have to look for someone else and put him on the front line so that we may be able to sail through come 2022,” Eseli said. He said unity is important even in seeking political partnerships because it increased a region’s bargaining power. FORD KENYA INTACT Eseli said the country lacks a strong Opposition to point out ills in government after ODM leader Raila Odinga agreed to support President Uhuru Kenyatta during the March 9 handshake. He said those in the Opposition must strategise to fill the void. “Residents of Western have been strong supporters of the former prime minister because he informed us when they stole from NYS, SGR and Eurobond. But they (the government) have decided to take him on their side,” Eseli said. The lawmaker said Ford Kenya was still intact despite deputy party leader Boni Khalwale declaring support for Deputy President William Ruto. “As the secretary general of the Lion’s party, I can tell you that you should not be lied to that we have moved to Jubilee. We are not even ready to do so. If there is anyone who has left, he has gone as an individual and not the party since we have not agreed to do so,” he said. Khalwale, a former Kakamega senator, recently announced that he will support Ruto’s 2022 presidential bid. The announcement has rocked attempts to merge Ford Kenya and ANC with the latter accusing Wetang’ula’s party of having joined Jubilee. Khalwale was among members of the technical committee looking into the merge process. The merger is aimed at consolidating regional votes for a strong stab at the presidency in 2022. “We cannot organise ourselves and unite then join a competitor,” Mudavadi said in Lugari on Saturday. He said Western leaders will meet in Busia before December to discuss the region’s political future.