He has the difficult, if not impossible role, of balancing between foe-turned-friend Raila Odinga and his own two-term supporter, Deputy President William Ruto. The ODM boss and the DP who aspires to be president are going at it hammer and tongs and sparks are flying. Ruto says Raila's a "conman" who wants to push him out of Jubilee. So far, Uhuru has stayed out of the mess and hasn't taken sides. But he repeatedly has said it's too early for campaigning, which Ruto is doing with a vengeance. The president has been conspicuously silent on Ruto's aspirations and whether he still supports the 'deal' that Jubilee would reign for 20 years, with Ruto wearing the crown for the final 10. Raila, a former prime minister, hasn't said whether he will run but staunchly supports the president's Big Four. He is also calling urgently for a referendum on changing the system of government to a parliamentary-like system and reducing the number of lawmakers to reduce the wage bill. Raila could end up as Prime Minister.  REFERENDUM DIVIDE Ruto calls a referendum a dangerous distraction. Uhuru hasn't commented since May when he said the priority was development, not a referendum. “Changing the Constitution
will not solve our problems. But engaging with the private sector on
manufacturing will," Uhuru told the Presidential Round
Table Forum on May 10. But how long can President Kenyatta remain noncommittal? It may well be impossible to mediate between the two sides, as battle lines have been drawn. He's walking a tightrope and needs both men. Analyst Martin Andati says Ruto had panicked because attention to him has been diluted after the handshake. Ruto is "like a wife fearing a polygamous marriage," Andati told the Star on Friday. “Ideally,
Uhuru would give Ruto all necessary attention. With Raila on board, he
must divide his attention between the two. Ruto isn't  used to that and
perhaps that's why he's gone ballistic," Andati said. President Kenyatta is in a predicament, the analyst said, and playing it safe "to avert an implosion in government. “Ruto
commands massive numbers in Parliament. He's no pushover and Uhuru must
hold onto him for the sake of his agenda. At the same time, the
President needs Raila’s goodwill,” the analyst said. The suspicion and deep-rooted enmity between Ruto and Raila finally burst into the open last week when Ruto accused Raila of planning to drive him out of Jubilee after the March 9 cooperation handshake with Uhuru. The two have put aside any pretence of cordiality, threatening the calm the country has enjoyed since the handshake. Political temperatures are rising as Raila's camp pushes for a constitutional referendum and Ruto's camp calls it a dangerous distraction. The DP had managed to mute the referendum debate that erupted in April and May, but it's gaining momentum again and proving divisive. Ruto allies and analysts say Raila wants to exploit the handshake to push for constitutional amendment. Ruto and others argue Raila is trying to enter government through the back door by expanding the Executive through a plebiscite. On Thursday Raila said a referendum was inevitable and unstoppable, a statement that could put him at odds with Uhuru, though the president himself has complained that the Constitution is unwieldy and costly. “Our Constitution is very ripe for change. We must evaluate if devolution has served successfully and the emerging bottlenecks. Is the Executive too bloated for our economy? And what about environmental issues?” the ODM party leader asked. A successful referendum would be, in effect, a contest between Raila and Ruto. A win for changing the government and giving the president less power would be a 'defeat' for the DP. To avoid this scenario, Ruto's corner has come out guns blazing, saying constitutional amendment would distort government and introduce the position of Prime Minister — for Raila. Uhuru, whose focus is his legacy, has maintained a studious silence. However, even within Jubilee, some politicians want to review the 2010 Constitution to remedy problems and reduce the budget, putting the President and party leader in a precarious situation. On Friday, Jubilee nominated MP Maina Kamanda said Kenyans want a referendum "like tomorrow", saying it is not about Raila. "Kenyans are ready for a referendum, let nobody cheat you otherwise. Even in Jubilee, we support it. We must fix this Constitution and reduce the burden on mwananchi," the former Starehe MP told the Star. But National Assembly Majority leader Aden Duale warned against premature calls to amend the Constitution. “Jubilee will not be involved in the debate about reducing the number of electoral seats until it gets direction from the president. Our focus is on the Big Four," the  Garissa Township MP said. A section of former MPs, including those from Uhuru's backyard, have kicked off campaigns for a referendum, and have formed a bi-partisan caucus to push for amendments. Analysts say the referendum push might be the straw that breaks the camel's back in Jubilee, leading to irremediable division. In an indication of rising temperatures, Raila’s allies have dragged Ruto into the Migori senatorial by-election, accusing him trying to divide opposition strongholds. “This by-election is between Ruto and Raila. Do not allow Ruto to penetrate Raila’s stronghold," ODM chairman John Mbadi said on Thursday. Including Ruto in the opposition’s campaign agenda in Migori heightens tension between the two camps.  On one hand, Uhuru needs Raila to sustain political calm necessary to deliver his ambitious development agenda. On the other, Uhuru is in dire need of the Deputy President’s unconditional support to execute government programmes and push Jubilee's agenda through Parliament. Any political miscalculation would prove disastrous for the President, given Ruto;s major support among MPs from across the political divide. They might gang up and frustrate Uhuru’s legacy projects.  RUTO AND FINANCE BILL The Finance Bill passed by MPs in chaotic sessions, was an example of how lawmakers can gang up to thwart government and even impeach the president. Enactment was a unity test for Jubilee party owing to the onslaught by rebellious MPs across the political divide. A section of ODM MPs have linked the Finance Bill mutiny to the DP whom they have accused of sponsoring MPs from both Jubilee and opposition to reject legislation. Despite the DP having personally appealed to the Jubilee MPs to back the President’s position on the eight per cent VAT on petroleum product, his critics claim Ruto engineered the open rebellion witnessed in Parliament. National Assembly Minority Whip Junet Mohamed claimed the DP met 30 MPs drawn from Jubilee and ODM to strategise on scuttling the Bill. They almost succeeded. “He hosted them in Karen to show he has the numbers in Parliament and use it as a weapon against  the handshake, Mohamed said. "Some of those who attended say the aim was to make Raila look insincere and unreliable, as he had promised Uhuru he would support the bill,” he said. "The DP has brewed rebellion in Jubilee and ODM.". While the claims haven’t been proven, the anti-Finance bill mood that engulfed Parliament, and the danger posed to Uhuru’s revenue generation measures, highlights President Kenyatta's fears of a divided Parliament and why he must hold onto Ruto, for now.  Through his whirlwind ‘development tours’, the DP has consolidated considerable support by winning over Raila’s former lieutenants from Coast and Western strongholds. In what has further forced the President to walk a tightrope, Ruto has openly spoken his mind Uhuru’s seven-month-old marriage with Raila. Seen as aggressive, indefatigable and tenacious, the DP said in Mombasa, "We know what the handshake is but we're very clear about what it is not ,so don’t bring confusion. The handshake is not a license to bring confusion and propaganda and conmanship into our party." The DP sees the Uhuru-Raila handshake as a major hurdle in presidential ambitions. His allies say Raila wants to exploit his working relationship with Uhuru to rebrand, and re-position himself as Ruto’s most credible challenger by “behaving as if he is the President‘s co-principal”. “Raila should stop portraying himself as a co-president to Kenyatta," Chepalungu MP Gideon Koskei said. Bomet woman representative Joyce Korir said the opposition leader was determined to "capsize the Jubilee boat in the deep seas of political hypocrisy and ruin the DP’s ambitions." “Raila wants to create a crisis in Jubilee, and he needs to be stopped before he causes further disunity,” the Jubilee MP warned. On Friday, Cherangany MP Joshua Kutuny told the Star the President was in dilemma over the Raila-Ruto tumult. He said Raila has zealously asserted his place in government by seizing the handshake moment and openly supporting Uhuru's Big Four, while encroaching into Ruto’s strongholds. “Raila might have realised  the only way to manage Ruto was to join government because he might have really compromised his political stand,” the MP said. Kutuny says because of raging uncertainty in the nation, Uhuru supporters now see Raila as helping Uhuru to achieve his agenda. “The DP understands any possible third party in government poses a threat to him," he said. "He also understands the attention from Jubilee supporters is divided between him and Raila, who is now perceived to stabilise government and thus is a good person.”       