It’s a big win for an 80-year-old woman after the Court of Appeal ordered that land valued at Sh1 billion along the Thika-Garissa road be retransferred to her. A portion of the land had been illegally acquired by Langata Development Company Limited, a land buying company, in 1989. According to court documents, the company identified the land and approached Mary Wairimu and agreed to buy 672 acres, being a portion of the whole land, at Sh23,500 per acre, translating to Sh15.7 million. The terms had been captured in an agreement for sale dated February 6, 1989 executed between the two parties. But the company allegedly illegally transferred an extra 85.3 acres to its name. Justices William Ouko, Patrick Kiage and Agnes Murgor yesterday said there was no agreement in writing evidencing the sale of that size of land. It also held that “It is quite plain that the company, who negotiated, contracted and paid for 672 acres from Mary, nevertheless by strange, mysterious but definitely very daring, if not greedy means managed to have transferred to itself an extra 85.3 acres without paying a cent for it”. The judges said the transfer and registration of the extra 85.3 acres was null and void and should be retransferred to Wairimu. “This appeal and the dispute that led to it is yet another example of the perfidious nature of human beings and their interactions which go to show that honesty and honour are at times in short supply,” the judges said. Wairimu, through her lawyer Gitau Mwaura and Grace Ngari, told the court she was unaware of the discrepancy until years later when in 2004 she received a rates demand from the municipal council of Thika which showed the acreage of her remaining land, which she still occupied, to be different from what it ought to have been. Mary later instructed her advocates who wrote to the Langata Development Company setting out her grievance that her 85.3 acres had been fraudulently transferred to them. She demanded it be immediately transferred back to her, failing which she would sue. The appellate court held that the only effective Land Control Board consent applied for and granted related to the contractual area of 672 acres. “There was no application made and no consent given for the transfer of 85.3 acres to the company and by virtue of Section 6 of the Land Control Act, such a transaction, in this case the transfer and registration of the company as the proprietor of the 85.3 acres, is null and void,” Read: Court returns plot grabbed from Koigi Wamwere's mother during his incarceration The judges also said “it is common ground that the company did not offer any consideration for the 85.3 acres." The matter started with a simple transaction. Langata Development Company Limited wanted to but land for sale to its members and Wairimu had just what it needed. She owned a huge chunk of prime land east of Thika Town known as LR No. 7240/2 christened Mary Dale Farm measuring 1,062 acres. The company directors identified the land and visited Wairiumu’s house where it was agreed that the company would buy 672 acres at Sh23,500 per acre, translating to Sh15.7 million. The terms had been captured in an agreement for sale dated February 6, 1989 executed between the two parties. “At the subdivision stage, confusion was ejected into the process whether by accident, ineptitude or mischief which has led to the protagonists being caught up in litigation for 14 years.” The transfer under the registration of Titles Act prepared and eventually executed in 1992 indicated Wairimu was transferring to the company 306.5 hectares. The transfer was registered and a certificate of title issued to Wairimu on August 25, 1992. The transfer and registration of the company as the owner of 306.5 hectares is the crux of dispute because its acre equivalent is 757.3 and thus exceeded the agreed, paid for and consented to acreage of 672 acres by 85.3 acres. Also See: Orengo returns grabbed land titles to Judiciary The lower court made a clear finding that “indeed a mistake or representation of the acreage did occur”. It, however, absolved the company of the allegations of fraud levelled against it on the basis the evidence before her was not sufficient. “Whether there was misrepresentation or not, the transfer of the contentious 85.3 acres must be declared null and void for a number of reasons.” Click here for the latest political news