Six armed robbers were yesterday shot dead by police after stealing a boda boda and gang-raping a woman passenger in Lucky Summer, Dandora, in Nairobi. Buruburu police boss Geoffrey Mayek said the rider and passenger were waylaid on the way after leaving Riverside destined for Lucky Summer by the gang of six men, who were armed with pistols. The robbers stole the motorcycle, mobile phones, a handbag and cash. “After the robbery, they blindfolded the rider and, in turns, gang-raped the woman severally before escaping,” Mayek said. The police boss said after the incident was reported, officers moved fast and with the help of personnel from the tracking company that had fitted a gadget on the motorcycle, located it near Gitwamba sharp corner in Dandora. He said his officers engaged the gang in a shootout in which all the gangstars were killed. Mayek said three loaded home-made pistols and all the stolen items were recovered. The motorcycle and the criminals were positively identified by the boba boda rider. The woman is admitted at MSF Hospital. “This is one area that has been giving us a headache. its well known place for harbouring dangerous criminals, who normally terrorise innocent people within Dandora and Kasarani,” a resident, who requested to remain anonymity for his personal security, said. Two months ago, 10 armed gangsters were shot dead by police and pistols and ammunitions recovered from them. The Economic Survey 2018 released by the Kenya National Bureau of Statistics in April showed that incidents of crime have nearly doubled over the past three years. The report indicated 4,383 incidents were reported to the police in 2015, 4,954 in 2016 and 7,434 last year, despite police saying they had formed a special team to address crime in the city. In July, police shot and killed two suspected thugs at Garden estate in Nairobi. They found a pistol with seven bullets in the incident at about 11 pm as they patrolled the area. Officers from the Special Crime Prevention Unit said two other suspects escaped. In Umoja Innercore, police killed two suspected criminals last night. They took their motorcycle to Buruburu police station. They said they the four, who were on foot, intended to commit a crime. Click here for the latest political news