County assembly speakers are restless. Some are worried for their safety. Some are fighting their ejection. Some have wounds as memorabilia of these fights and flights. Some are sabre-rattling, promising a comeback. Homa Bay county assembly speaker Elizabeth Ayoo's arm is in a sling after a lynching. Beatrice Elachi of Nairobi is crying over the Jubilee reward, which has no security against lynching. When a Kakamega MCA hammers nails into a wooden bar to lock the speaker's office, he is not debating an impeachment motion. Speaker Morris Buluma was lynched. An MCA spraying water, laced with pepper, is not debating an impeachment motion. Flying chairs in the assemblies are toys of lynch mobs. The mobs are baying for allowances, mortgages, 'bench-marking' trips, and other freebies. Lynching orgies have replaced legislation. Brawn has replaced brains. MCAs are brawling instead of debating. They take to fights and flights at the slightest provocation. The season of attrition is abloom in Nairobi, Kakamega, Homa Bay, Kisumu, Nyandarua, Bomet, Migori, Nakuru, Taita Taveta, and Embu counties. Legislative anarchy is devolved. MCAs are hungry. The 2022 general election is 42 months away. Potential competitions are warming up for the contest. Their depleted campaign accounts are leaking. Governors have gotten stingy. Some have taken leave. Some have given up on bribing MCAs because they are serving their final terms. They are saving for life outside public office. They also need to pay lawyers when they are charged with corruption. In one restless county, the governor is on sick leave. In another, the governor is in prison remand. In the two counties, MCAs are facing lean times: There will be no handouts until the 'owners' return. The MCAs are looking for vents for their anger. Speakers are soft targets. Time flies when opportunities for making extra money are sealed. The MCAs are grappling with the reality that anti-corruption agencies have reduced loopholes for pilferage of public funds. The zealous Director of Criminal Investigations George Kinoti and Director of Public Prosecutions Noordin Haji have incited the beast in MCAs. The anger of the MCAs is blinding. The difference between lynching and impeaching is blurred. In Nairobi, ousted Elachi saw a hidden hand in her ejection. In Kakamega, Buluma still hopes he will teach MCAs the difference between impeaching and lynching. In Migori, MCAs have a zombie moment. They are not sure whether to impeach their governor, who is on remand. The loyalists hope the governor will rebound. They have waited for more than a month. Others are scared of pushing an impeachment motion. They are worried the disgraced governor may return. Uncertainty and sycophancy have created animated suspense. In Machakos, the once boisterous Governor Alfred Mutua is worried. The petition awaiting ruling at the Supreme Court could go either way. Some MCAs are for Mutua, others are for his rival Wavinya Ndeti. The conflict occasionally degenerates in fights and flights. In Homa Bay, the governor is on sick leave. He has been away most of the time since the August 2017 election. The assembly is waiting for the pending ruling of the Supreme Court on the gubernatorial election petition. Meanwhile the county plunder bus is in top gear, with the blessing of the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission. The EACC is yet to act on many corruption cases at the county executive. It is waiting for presidential prompting before acting on desecration of integrity in public office. The Homa Bay county assembly is captive to clashing governor 2022 ambitions, and fears of the status quo. There are MCAS allied to ODM chairman John Mbadi. There are also those allied to Woman Rep Gladys Wanga. Mbadi and Governor Cyprian Awiti want a pliant speaker and majority leader in case the Supreme Court throws out Awiti's petition, as expected. Mbadi and Wanga, who have abetted, cheered, and enjoyed the plunder of public funds in Homa Bay for six years now, are campaigning to succeed Awiti. For them nothing has changed. It's their ambitions that count. The cats are out: People do not fight when reason fails. They brawl, fight, and flee under the influence of external forces.