Australia-based professional player, Desmond Owili is back in the country and hopes to turn around the national team’s fortunes in the next few days. The national team star forward is planning a number of build-up events including this weekend’s friendly dubbed ‘Allstar festival’ pitting the Kenyan team against players from the diaspora. The player is concerned about the dwindling national team standards both in the region and Africa and is keen to help the country regain their status as a competitor by starting afresh and laying a proper foundation. To set the ball rolling, Kenya national team to be handled by Cliff Owuor, will take on foreign-based including Owili and handled by Equity Bank coach Carey Oketch. The match is set for Nyayo National Stadium gymnasium on Saturday. “Everything is all set for Saturday and both teams have been training for the festival that will be held at the gymnasium. This will be the start of good things to come,” he said, adding that the two teams will don national team kit he bought in Australia. After this weekend’s show piece, Owili said he will sponsor the national team to Rwanda and Uganda for a series of friendly games that will help put them back on a firm road to recovery. The two nations have lately moved above Kenya in the world rankings. “Mine is to put them back on track. This will help prepare them adequately for coming international assignment. After this is done, I will have played my part and I will habd them back to the national federation,” he added. Owili, who plays for a top Australian side, Kilsyth Cobras, observed that Kenya have lately missed out on the Fiba Afro basket competitions simply due to lack of serious build-up matches ahead of the championships. This, he noted, will now be a thing of the past. The weekend festival will also feature the national women’s team as well as shooting and dunking contest. The premier league matches, he said have been postponed to pave way for the festival. “I am prepared to give a cash token of Sh5,000 each for shooting and dunking competition winners. I will also pay for the gymnasium, match officials and other logistics of the say,” he noted.