Tanzania and China have a large number of Kenyans in their jails. In the latest data released to Parliament yesterday, there are 273 Kenyans in foreign jails in 21 countries whose statistics had been received by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. On March 8, Foreign Affairs CS Monica Juma said there were 1,300 Kenyans serving jail terms in other countries, while there are 2,000 foreigners in Kenyan jails. But appearing before National Assembly Committee on Defence and Foreign Relations yesterday, the CS said exhaustive data is not available at the moment. She pledged to present an up-to-date status to the committee in 14 days. The data presented to the committee yesterday by the CS indicated that of the 273 Kenyans in foreign jails, Tanzania is holding 79 Kenyan prisoners, China has 57 and Uganda 47. There are 25 Kenyans in Malaysian jails, 10 in South Sudan, eight in Qatar, seven in Thailand and six in Seychelles. Ethiopia and Indonesia each has five Kenyan prisoners. Botswana, Pakistan, Philippines and Kuwait each has three Kenyans in prison, while Oman, Togo and South Africa have two each. Japan, Austria, Brazil, Nepal, South Korea and Rwanda each has one Kenyan prisoner. France has no Kenyan in incarceration. “The United Kingdom and Switzerland could not release any data because they are not allowed to share information on Kenyan nationals in their penal detention or those with pending legal proceedings or their crimes they are accused of because of data protection law,” CS Juma said. Read: Locked up: 183 Kenyans are held in foreign jails She announced that Kenya and Tanzania are working on bilateral agreement that will see a swap of prisoners between the two countries. “The draft agreement was proposed by the government of Kenya and conveyed to its Tanzanian counterpart for consideration. Implementation of the agreement will ensure that Kenyans serving jail sentence in Tanzania would be brought to Kenya to serve half of their sentence,” Juma said. She said the incarceration of Kenyan nationals in foreign jails is not unique to the country. “We have foreigners in our jails too. This is a global situation. However, at the mission abroad, we don’t have provision for legal assistance as engaging a lawyer it must be sanctioned by the AG and it’s a costly affair,” Juma said See: 200 Kenyans rot in Saudi Arabia jails She was responding to questions on whether they offer Kenyan nationals assistance when they run into legal problems in foreign lands. The CS said they offer consular services through the head of mission to ensure human rights are not abused. She said Kenyans are accorded access to medical services and lawyer if need arises. CS Juma urged Kenyans travelling or staying abroad to always register with the embassy in their respective destination for easier assistance if they run into trouble. Click here for the latest political news