Seven years after NTV journalist Wanjiru Kabiru’s death, the High Court on Friday ruled that her husband Moses Dola did not intend to kill her and reduced his murder charge to manslaughter. Dola was charged in 2011 with the murder of Wanjiru. It was alleged he killed her during an altercation in their bedroom. Justice Roselyn Korir on Friday said it is possible Wanjiru sustained head injuries during the scuffle leading to her death, but there was no witness to tell the court what transpired between the two. “It’s clear that Wanjiru was assaulted and it’s possible she sustained the injuries in the scuffle, but we will never know what happened in that room on that fateful morning,” she said. The judge said the couple had problems as a result of Dola’s joblessness — Wanjiru had a job. She dismissed Dola’s defence that they were fighting over loud music. The journalist had claimed Wanjiru was mad because of loud music and she sought to stab him with a pair of scissors but he snatched it from her. Dola further said Wanjiru wanted to reach for the scissors again during the scuffle but she hit her head on the bed. He said she was okay when he left. However, Korir said she could not believe Dola’s version of events because witnesses said when they entered the room they found things scattered all over, indicating there had been a fight between the couple. The court said no one will ever know why Wanjiru was neatly tucked in her bed when she was found dead lying face up. Korir ruled that Dola’s conduct on the morning of the incident and a day later was full of regret and showed he was disturbed by what he did. She said the fact that he went to his brother-in-law’s house looking disturbed and asking for alcohol showed he knew he had done something wrong. “Clearly, the accused was disturbed, even by him turning himself to the police at the Naivasha police station,” Korir said. The judge gave him the benefit of the doubt because of the many probabilities of what could have happened on that day. She ruled that there was no malice in the death of Wanjiru that was caused by her husband. “I find that Dola caused the death of Wanjiru. I also found out that the element of malice was not proved beyond reasonable doubt,” Korir said. In mitigation, Dola, through lawyer Cliff Ombeta, asked the court for a noncustodial sentence, saying he is remorseful and didn’t expect what happened. Ombeta said Wanjiru’s family, especially her mother, were trying to move on from the incident and has even allowed Dola to talk to his son, who has been told what transpired between his later mother and the father. Read: Journalist Moses Dola guilty of manslaughter in wife's killing Dola also pleaded with the court to allow him to mediate with his late wife’s family to reconcile for the benefit of his son. However, the prosecution called for a custodial sentence, arguing that the child was deprived of his mother. The prosecution said Wanjiru’s young life and career were ended abruptly by Dola. Speaking after the judgment, Wanjiru’s brother, Joseph Gitahi, said he will never forgive Dola for causing the death of his sister. The case will be mentioned on October 21 when a pre-sentencing report will be presented by probation officers before Dola is sentenced. Click here for the latest political news