A Nairobi-based Othaya trader and a politician has faulted people using social media to criticise and insult leaders. Wambugu Wainaina on Sunday said though there is freedom of expression, there is need for people to use social media responsibly. He cited those who have been criticising the President over the increase in VAT on petroleum products. Wambugu, who in last year’s election vied for Othaya MP on an independent ticket, said the VAT increase is in “good faith” and meant to spur development. He said the country has been borrowing the money for development projects such as construction of roads, electricity, SGR and funding education. “Those using the social media should think twice before posting anything on the sites. We call on the government to take action against those using the platforms to insult others,” he said in Othaya. “We have freedom of expression but it also has a limit. You should not take to social media to insult and defame other people.” Wambugu said Kenyans should appreciate what the government is doing, be patient and stop hurling insults. The increase in the country’s budget, he said, is an indication the economy is growing. “I want to advise my fellow Kenyans that by the time the country is through with settling the debt, Kenya will have developed a lot in infrastructure such as roads and railway,” Wambugu said. A report released by Kenya National Bureau of Statistics on Friday last week showed in September, inflation shot up to an 11-month high of 5.7 per cent, indicating tougher times ahead as effects of VAT on petroleum hit. The prices for food and non-food items rose marginally, pushing inflation from a low of 4.04 per cent in August. Inflation data shows prices of food and nonalcoholic drinks increased by 0.37 per cent while housing, water, electricity, gas and other fuels increased by 0.47 per cent in September compared to August. Earlier, CBK warned that overall inflation was expected to rise as secondary effects of VAT on petroleum products.