Put plainly, Monsanto has been nearly the most vilified company on the planet. Critics pointed to its excessive use of chemicals and its standout role in promoting Genetically Modified Organisms. In Kenya, besides GMOs, the company is better known for its most popular weed killer, Roundup. Despite its successes in seed production and fighting weeds, the company’s name was wrecked by rivals and environmental groups. They warned that GMO takeover would kill smallholder farming and place farmers at the mercy of big corporates. Now, after 117 years of existence, the name ‘Monsanto’ is being retired. The company, whose African headquarters are in Westlands, has been bought by German agrochemical giant Bayer. The takeover was finalised last month to create the world’s biggest seed and pesticides company. Two weeks ago, the global executive leadership team of Bayer toured Monsanto’s new African home on Thika Road. The team was led by Jesus Madrazo, the charming former Monsanto executive, who was promoted to head agricultural affairs and sustainability for the crop science division at Bayer. He said farmers would be the main beneficiaries of the merger. Madrazo also fought off perception that seed prices would go up because of reduced competition. “The whole propose of combination was delivering more important and faster combination of innovation to farmers,” he added at the quiet, tightly guarded offices opposite Kenya School of Monetary Studies. The multi-billion dollar takeover was closely watched by rivals and environmental groups, who feared that the number of players in the business of selling seeds and pesticides will shrink further and give one company a suffocating grip on the food chain. “Farmers are smart and sensible businesspeople and won’t buy any product that won’t work for them,” Madrazo responded last week. He also threw in some of Bayer’s social responsibility activities in Kenya. “One of the current projects we have running is the $5 million Improved Approach to Community-based Nutrition in Turkana (Impact) Project, whose goal is to improve nutrition outcomes for pregnant and lactating women and infants and young children,” he said. Recently, Bayer collaborated with One Acre Fund, where the company injected EUR700,000 towards improving the situation of smallscale farmers. The project addresses more than 600,000 farmers in Kenya and Rwanda, who will be provided with high-quality poultry and digital technology. Throughout the two-year merger process, top Bayer executives around the world have always projected farmers as the beneficiaries. “Today is a great day for our customers – farmers around the world whom we will be able to help secure and improve their harvests even better,” said Werner Baumann, chairman of the Bayer board of management, earlier this year. “We will be even better placed to help the world’s farmers grow more healthy and affordable food in a sustainable manner,” he said.  NO RETRENCHMENT Madrazo last week assured employees of Bayer and the former Monsanto office no one will be laid off. “The two companies are very complementary, and we’ve been dealing in two different areas. There will be many opportunities for all of our employees across the world,” he said. He defended GMOs, saying they are not the silver bullet to end hunger but one of the tools that farmers need to fight the challenges they face. “But I must say, not having GMOs is a missed opportunity for farmers,” he said. The African Agricultural Technology Foundation, a not-for-profit organisation based in Nairobi, said Monsanto used to donate to them royalty-free technologies, like improved cowpea, to benefit Kenyan farmers. AATF executive director Denis Kyetere said the fall armyworm, which has destroyed about 30 per cent of maize in Kenya, can be controlled through transgenic maize. “GMOs are part of an integrated production system,” he said. Eric Bureau, Bayer East Africa MD, said it was ironic that Kenya does not use tools that have been proven to work in regional countries. “Innovation moves at an accelerated pace, but if policy doesn’t, farmers will continue to miss benefits,” he said. The Monsanto buyout was bumpy, and pressure from environmentalists recently pushed the European Union into renewing Monsanto’s licence for flagship weedkiller glyphosate (the active ingredient in Roundup) for just five years, instead of the usual 15, over cancer-causing claims. Some member countries plan to ban it altogether or restrict use. Meanwhile, a California court recently awarded a school groundsman damages of almost $290 million, finding that the chemical caused his cancer. Madrazo vigorously defended the chemical in Nairobi, saying it has been used safely for 40 years. He said the International Agency for Research on Cancer's decision to classify glyphosate as a “possible carcinogen” was unscientific and erroneous. “We have appealed this decision and continue to vigorously defend this product, which has a 40-year history of safe use and continues to be a vital, effective and safe tool for farmers,” Madrazo said. Soon, Monsanto’s name — and memory — are expected to disappear as the merger takes form. “Bayer will remain the company name. Monsanto will no longer be a company name. The acquired products will retain their brand names and become part of the Bayer portfolio,” Bayer said in a statement in June.  