A group of leaders has called for a judicial inquiry to establish the real cause of the the Fort Ternan bus crash that claimed 58 people and left 15 others admitted in hospitals with serious injuries. Others called for the immediate sacking and prosecution of Inspector general of Police Joseph Boinnet. Kericho governor Paul Chepkwony, ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi, Ford Kenya’s Moses Wetang’ula, Kakamega senator Cleophas Malala, Ikolomani MP Bernard Shinali, Titus Khamala (Lurambi) and Nambale’s John Bunyasi said the inquiry will ensure Kenyans know what happened before the deaths and who is to blame. Shinali, Bunyasi and Khamala said they will table a motion in Parliament seeking to declare the accident a national disaster and call for the set up of a commission of inquiry. The leaders spoke during a joint interdenominational requiem mass for 34 victims of the Fort Ternan accident. The mass was held at Amalemba grounds. Read: Moi Day horror as 56 die in road crash Mudavadi said insurance may decline to compensate the families of the deceased unless a proper inquiry is carried out. “We must be serious and the government must act immediately so that we don’t lose our people anymore,” he said. Malala said Boinnet must tell Kenyans what action he had taken against traffic police officers who were on duty and allowed an overloaded bust to proceed with the journey. “It is interesting that the owner of the bus who was in his house sleeping when the accident occurred has been arrested and the officers manning about 15 road blocks are still free,” he said. The Kakamega governor urged families to avoid travelling in the same vehicle during long journeys. “It is important that people of one family travel in separate vehicles any time they are journeying so that in the event of accident not all perish,” he said. Wetang’ula said the government must get to the root cause of the accident and ensure justice for the families that lost loved ones. “The government must come up with a blue print on how to make our roads safe,” he said. Read: Public outrage as Kenyans demand action after Ternan crash More: Fort Ternan crash: Bus lacks night travel license, NTSA blames court for lifting ban Click here for the latest political
news