Is President Uhuru Kenyatta against referendum calls by some leaders, including some from his team? Well, one of the top leaders in the National Assembly was overheard saying the agitation by some leaders from Jubilee to amend the Constitution has not been well-received by the party leader. Instead, Uhuru is said to be pushing MPs to support his Big Four agenda. Could some powerful forces be engineering Constitution change through referendum? Well, only time will tell. A former legislator in the last parliament who lost in the elections has gone completely broke. The woman has stunned her friends at the rate at which she is disposing her properties barely a year after leaving office. The once flamboyant youthful legislator has in a record two months sold her known, five-top-of-the-range cars at what her close friends call 'throw away prices.' The last car, Corridors learnt, was towed away late last month. The travails of politicians can be unlimited. Is Central police station in Nairobi understaffed or are officers not performing their duties? Complainants seeking services are forced to queue for more than 30 minutes each waiting to be served or even heard. On Tuesday, a member of the public had to struggle through the numbness of holding on to a thief he had apprehended after stealing a bicycle within the CBD. Not appreciative of the situation, the officers simply told them to wait until it was their turn. There is only one officer receiving complaints and recording incidents in the Occurrence Book (OB) at any given time. Is that excellent customer service, bwana IG? Spurring for political supremacy within Nasa parties seems to be spilling into Parliament. ANC’s Butere MP Tindi Mwale is reported to have been axed from the powerful Public Accounts Committee and replaced by Homa Bay Woman Representative Gladys Wanga of ODM. Mwale who is an ardent supporter of Nasa co-principal Musalia Mudavadi was overheard lamenting in the precincts of Parliament why he was replaced in the committee with an ODM instead of ANC lawmaker. Well, a mole confided to Corridors that the whip-cracking was choreographed by Minority Whip Junet Mohammed (Suna East). This could open a fresh round of wrangles within the alliance led by Raila Odinga as members complain of filling in sharing of slots in committees. Still in Parliament, a first time MP from a constituency in central Kenya is in trouble. Corridors has learned that the legislator battered his wife and left her for dead. Luckily, the woman who was in a critical condition was treated in hospital and discharged. Questions are being raised over the lawmaker’s integrity but it remains what caused the Mheshimiwa to resort to such brutality. Click here for the latest political news