Imagine being stripped of your dignity, your home and livestock burnt, and staring at eviction from land you have occupied your whole life. Worse still, there is mounting political pressure and you risk being expelled from your town of birth because your last name indicates you are an “invader”. You lack the financial muscle to withstand this storm. Where will you go? Who will save you when the ruthless police descend upon you? This is the dilemma at least 5,000 Taveta squatters face in a decades-long land mess. The squatters are victims of brutalities; they have witnessed arson and watched as loved ones were slashed and shot with arrows. The land dispute is largely blamed on the government and powerful political figures. The killings, which began in 2012, are allegedly supervised by police, claims the officers deny. The squatters are, however, not going down without a fight. With the help of organisations such as Muslims for Human Rights (Muhuri), the National Coalition for Human Rights Defenders (NCHRDs) and the Kenya Human Rights Commission (KHRC), they are using legal channels to demand that their rights be respected and protected. THE GENESIS The disputed 15,994.5 acres were part of 180,000-acre property once owned by former powerful Taveta MP Basil Criticos. Criticos owned a sisal farm where he hired a number of labourers in the 1950s. These labourers were the parents of the current squatters. At the end of the day, the labourers would retreat to an uncultivated farm that was to later become their home. Years passed and the labourers started families, some of their children are now more than 53 years old. Criticos took a Sh20 million loan from Kenya National Capital Corporation (KNCC) to expand his sisal business and used the 15,994.5 acres as collateral. The loan was advanced to Agro Development Company, where Criticos was then a director and shareholder, between 1990 and 1991. The KNCC was later succeeded by National Bank of Kenya. Criticos failed to repay the loan and in September 2007 the land was sold to Settlement Fund Trustees, a government institution. The plan was to resettle the squatters. In May 2008, Special Programmes minister Naomi Shaaban, now Taveta MP, said the government had obtained a title deed to the land. She said the land would be redistributed to the squatters. Land survey, subdivision, demarcation and issuance of title deeds followed. But dozens of the squatters told the Star the title deeds were issued unprocedurally. This gave rise to a problem that has persisted to-date, with killings, torture and threat of eviction. Close to 80 per cent of the 5,000 squatters were not given title deeds. The rest had documents for a separate piece of land that they had developed. SQUATTERS’ WOES In 2014 Tom Odera was fatally shot with a poisonous arrow allegedly by a hired gang. The suspects are on trial. Marcela Nyakundi from Ngosheli village watched as Joseph Munyao, aka Rasta, and his wife Maria Kisyula burnt inside their home in June 2015. “I stood outside the home and asked, ‘Rasta, are you there?’ ‘Yes, I am, but don’t worry,’ he replied,” Nyakundi narrates. Rasta died in the fire, his wife succumbed to her injuries a month later. The killings shook the community and traumatised Nyakundi. Fear is etched in her face when we drive to her quarter-acre farm for the interview. Usually, Nyakundi says, flashy cars such as ours are a precursor to attacks. She ran to hide behind her mud-walled home when our vehicle drew up. “I told my husband, ‘Today we are finished’,” she says. She only grew calm when she saw Kelly Aduo, Muhuri’s Taita Taveta field officer who has been fighting for their rights on the streets and in courts. “This land will never be taken away from you. Muhuri will fight for you,” Aduo promises Nyakundi. Muhuri and KHRC have hired an advocate to represent the community in court. Muhuri also provides logistical support for petitioners and witnesses when they appear in court in Nairobi. The case has been transferred to the Land and Environmental Court for mention. “We have been disrespected by the children of those who want us out of the land,” Nyakundi says. She accuses police of watching while they are attacked. “These atrocities are made to appear like tribal clashes,” Nyakundi says. “Politicians say those without title deeds should vacate. But where will we go? We know no other home. These are the people who are killing us. I urge President Uhuru Kenyatta to intervene. Our hearts won’t be at peace until we get a title deed.” Agnes Mwamburi’s house was burnt down in 2012 by people she knew well. “It was chaotic. I saw a woman’s hand broken, chickens thrown into an intense fire. Goats were slashed by youths determined to evict us,” she says. “A man filming was assailed and killed.” The man was Jackson Musyoki. He was slashed with pangas. Musyoki is survived by a widow and two children, who are struggling to make ends meet. “Police had vehemently denied that they were evictions. The video is evidence,” Aduo says. Mwamburi says they are treated like “lesser citizens”. “Uhuru should tell us if Taveta is not part of Kenya.” Kioko Mandela was issued with a title deed to his father Joshua Muema’s land. “They want me to evict my father? Where will the man go?” Mandela’s 10 acres are also being claimed by another family following errors in documentation. Amos Mutuko bought 25 acres from Critcos in 1999. The title deed he received indicates his land is only two acres. Mutuko says he will not move out of the other 23 acres, even if he is evicted. Aduo says residents have lost trust in deputy county commissioner Stanley Kamande and politicians. He accuses Kamande of contempt of court. In the course of compiling this report, Aduo received a distress call. Another squatter had been arrested and was being assaulted at Taveta police station. “There is a conservatory order blocking such arrests and brutality, but police [have ignored it],” Aduo says as he rushes to her rescue. “Those who fraudulently acquired title deeds, as many as four, are partly driving this eviction campaign. It is the government’s obligation to have court orders enforced.” GOVERNMENT’S DEFENCE Kamande says the disputed land was held on lease before it was repossessed by the government despite part of it being sold. Buyers say they lost their property with the change of ownership. Kamande attributed this to the terms and conditions of the lease. “We cannot help, they have to deal with the situation,” he says. Kamande says investigations are ongoing to determine whether majority of the squatters missed title deeds. Police will check if some people have more than one document, he says. “Some people did not pick title deeds from the registry. Others burnt or tore them after being influenced.” Kamande says some squatters have sold their land, complicating the case further. He denies that evictions have taken place during his time in the area and says he knows of no incidences of police brutality. “We are blocked from acting on criminal and civil cases pending a ruling.” Asked whether he works with the political class, which is accused of masterminding the squatters’ woes, he says, “An administrator works with elected leaders…I have no apology to make. The accusations have no foundation.” He goes on to warn, “If you are living on land that is not yours and the court says you should be evicted, you will be evicted. The government has all the machinery to evict them.” For the squatters, their only hope is a favorable court outcome. As night falls, they do not retire to bed but remain awake and on the lookout for attackers. Men are on their toes, whistles in their mouths. When an alarm is sounded they all head in that direction, hoping to get there in time to save a life. They have to remain united to survive. What’s certain is their wounds run deep. A serious and binding agreement is urgently needed. Meanwhile, many ask themselves whether the country will come up with solutions to Kenya’s decades-long emotive issue any time soon.