The legitimacy of the directive that MCAs get clearance from the Ministry of Devolution before a foreign trip is questionable. However, the rationale is understandable. The legitimacy is questionable because county assembly members are part of a separate government, which is not the national government. We have 48 governments in Kenya. Assembly members can therefore not be controlled by the national government. However, the Constitution contemplates consultation. But to subject the MCAs to a Cabinet Secretary is to subjugate them and make their governments subordinate to the national government. That is why the directive is of doubtful legitimacy. But it is true there has been a lot of inappropriate expenditure in counties, just as with the national government. It is also true that for a while MCAs (and even us MPS) have taken unnecessary trips abroad. Sometimes they are inordinately expensive. There have been times some leaders claimed to have travelled when they hadn’t. They have at times created diplomatic headaches for the embassies abroad when they travel without prior notification. Therefore, the idea to control MCAs trips abroad is understandable. What should happen, however, is that the control should not be exercised by a Cabinet Secretary. It should be by an independent office. We have independent financial offices like the office of the Controller of Budget and the office of Auditor General. If there is to be anything close to consideration before the expenditure, it would be the office of the Controller of Budget to do so. We have additional offices that give financial and governance oversight. These include the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission, the office of the Ombudsman, offices like the Commission on Revenue Allocation. The advantage that these offices have is they are not part of the national government. They are part of the state but not the national government. This means that if they were to be involved, one would not complain that they are subjugating county governments. That is why I started by saying that while the idea is good, the implementation style is not right. The circular can therefore be challenged in court because it is not in tandem with the Constitution. The constitutional lawyer and MP for Rarieda spoke to the Star Click here for the latest political news