President Uhuru Kenyatta is not interested in any political office after the end of his second term. His firm ‘No’ comes amid proposals to create a position for him, ostensibly because he will still be young. The rebuff has thrown off sycophants from Mt Kenya who had mooted the idea as an incentive for supporting constitutional amendments, commonly couched as a referendum. The proposal was also being crafted by politicians wary of the political future of the Central Kenya region after Uhuru’s exit. It would be a lifeline for remaining in power. Read: Mt Kenya splits into Raila and Ruto camps Since the March 9 truce with NASA leader Raila Odinga, two camps have emerged in the Mt Kenya region proffering different stances on the 2022 presidential race. While one axis — comprising mainly former lawmakers — is pushing for Uhuru’s comeback in 2022 as Prime Minister and Raila as President, another faction is gravitating towards Deputy President William Ruto to assume the mantle. Ruto’s supporters have read mischief in the Uhuru-Raila handshake, which they see as part of a wider scheme to scuttle the DP’s ascension to the top job in 2022. Battle lines are already drawn between Ruto and Raila camps, but it is the President’s affirmation of his decision to exit from office in 2022 that has reignited the succession battle within Mt Kenya and nationally. During an interview with CNN’s Richard Quest on Monday, Uhuru said he is neither interested in extending his stay in office beyond 2022, when his second and last constitutional term ends, nor seeking any public office. Atwoli backs comeback "Your term of office ends in 2022. The Constitution prevents you from standing again. Are you going to try and seek to change the Constitution?" Quest asked Uhuru, who responded with an emphatic “No”. "I’m not interested" is how Uhuru responded when prodded further on whether he would yield to the push from politicians who want the Constitution amended to create a prime minister position for him. In May, Central Organisation of Trade Unions secretary general Francis Atwoli proposed that the Constitution be amended to bring Uhuru back as PM after completing his term in 2022. The PM position would be modelled along the Russian system that saw President Vladmir Putin and Prime Minister Dmtry Medvedev swap positions at the end of Putin’s term. In Putin’s case, after running for the constitutional two terms between 2000 and 2008, the Russian president had a power-switching operation on May 8, 2008, that saw first Deputy Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev elected his successor. Immediately after handing the presidency to Medvedev, Putin was appointed Prime Minister of Russia, maintaining his political dominance. Read: Mt Kenya politicians back Raila's push for lifestyle audits "Let’s amend this Constitution and adopt the Bomas draft to fight exclusion, realising that not all of us can be president. This will allow us to accommodate President Uhuru Kenyatta, who is very young. Otherwise where are we going to take him?" asked Atwoli during Labour Day celebrations. The Bomas draft constitution proposed transferring the bulk of presidential powers to a prime minister elected by Parliament. With the referendum debate gaining momentum since the handshake deal, the push to bring Uhuru back depicts heightening anxiety over who should be the beneficiary of the position if it is created. Uhuru poured cold water on the agitation within his backyard for him to make a political comeback after 2022 by saying he does not contemplate a further third term in office even if the Constitution was amended to allow it. Cost of running government The President is only one year-old in his second term, but there has been swirling anxiety in the Mt Kenya region that his exit could occasion a political vacuum with no clear successor. Those pushing for him to stay on argue that there is no clear successor capable of attracting the support of major political and economic brokers from the region. Some politicians have expressed lukewarm support for constitutional changes if they would reintroduce a parliamentary system to entrench the position of PM and accommodate Uhuru. Read: Ruto allies from Central go quiet over DP ’22 bid However, on Monday Uhuru appeared to suggest that amending the Constitution will not be about overburdening the taxpayers with the creation of more positions in government. "People are talking about constitutional change but not necessarily because they are desirous for the President to seek a third term. They are talking about constitutional change because of issues related to the cost of running this new Constitution, et cetera. Those are the issues on the table," Uhuru said. Uhuru, 57, will turn 62 years in 2022. His backers argue he will be “too young” to retire from national politics. Naivasha retreat More than 70 MPs from the region, who met in Naivasha on Monday for private talks, were forced to abandon Uhuru’s succession agenda after it proved divisive. Instead, they scheduled a meeting with the President tomorrow to seek clarity on the matter and other economic issues affecting the region. The politicians claimed that Jubilee had given the region a raw deal, despite getting overwhelming support during the 2013 and 2017 elections. They argued that the region contributes up to 60 per cent of the GDP, but was only receiving 20 per cent of the national budget. Consequently, the leaders have mapped out a development matrix they intend to push to enable its people to benefit from the government. The development plan will be handed to the President tomorrow in Karatina. He is scheduled to hold private talks with the MPs from the region. Yesterday, Murang’a senator Irung’u Kang’ata admitted that the exit of Uhuru as President in 2022 would leave the region without a leader to push for its interests because he is the Kikuyu community’s spokesman. "I have no doubt the President will retire in 2022. That is a foregone conclusion. There would be a gap. Then that begs the question: Who will be his successor and what position will he get?" the Senate Deputy Majority Whip said. The lawmaker confirmed that it is in light of the anticipated political vacuum that Mt Kenya politicians have stirred debate on Uhuru’s post-2022 role given that he still remains the region’s political kingpin and figurehead. "Those agitating for his [Uhuru] comeback after 2022 are looking at it in that context. Who is going to push the interests of the region? Who will be the Kikuyu kingpin and what position will that spokesman get?" he said. Kang’ata insisted that while Uhuru’s exit is inevitable, the region has no successor with the necessary gravitas to assume the mantle. Such a successor would require high-voltage endorsement, financial muscle and longstanding political experience. "Point to me any single politician from the Kikuyu community with more than 15 years’ experience. There is none," he said. Click here for the latest political news  