The fight against corruption should not be politicised, Deputy President William Ruto has said. He said there are independent institutions that have been empowered-financially and staff wise-to tame the vice. Ruto said some politicians were trying to hijack the success being witnessed in efforts to rid the country of graft. "We have invested time, people and resources in enhancing the capacities and capabilities of our independent constitutional institutions that combat wastage, mismanagement and theft in public institutions." The DP spoke on Thursday during the opening of the Global Leadership Summit at the Christ Is The Answer Ministries, Valley Road, Nairobi. "The politicisation of investigations and prosecution by individuals who are neither witnesses, investigators, prosecutors nor judges, undermines the noble effort of the war on graft," he added. In an interview on Tuesday, Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka condemned the arraignment of Deputy Chief Justice Philomena Mwilu at a magistrate's court. Kalonzo derided the DPP's office for the move and said it would have been proper if Mwilu, whom he lawyered for in the fraud case, was subjected to a JSC process. The corruption fight has also featured in the national political discourse, especially in the wake of undertones on the 2022 general elections. A section of leaders have also questioned the government's commitment to tackle graft, some arguing it is meant to target some individuals with a view to frustrating their electoral bids. However, Ruto said that despite criticisms from some quarters, he remains confident that the government had made strides in the fight against corruption. He cited increased openness and transparency in government operations and the investment in time, people and resources for constitutional institutions that combat wastage. "I believe that governments whose operations are open and transparent suffer less from the scourge of corruption," the DP said. Ruto further observed that a steering committee had developed the second National Action Plan on Open Government as a key mechanism in the anti-corruption toolbox. The plan saw the amendment to the companies' laws that ushered in the publication of the beneficial ownership information on each company. He urged leaders not to abuse powers bestowed unto them by engaging in activities that add no value to the people they serve. "Leadership comes with immense authority and power that can change families, communities and nations. But power and authority carries with it immense responsibility, without which, power is perverted, meaningless and dangerous." He urged religious organisations to be on the frontline in not only preaching good stewardship but also stepping up, rolling its sleeves and joining the task of developing excellent stewards wherever they are needed. Ruto said cases of failed societies, institutions and organisations were symptomatic of absent or failed stewardship. Click here for the latest political news 