A city lawyer wants the High Court to enjoin him in a case filed by Deputy Chief Justice Philomena Mwilu seeking to stop her prosecution over alleged tax evasion and bribery. Adrian Kamotho wants the court to allow him to be an interested party. Kamotho says he is adversely mentioned in the Mwilu petition in her affidavit and further wants his name expunged from the sections in which it appears. He says this is to avert possible misapprehensions and negative inferences that may potentially impair his professional status. Kamotho also claims Mwilu has been illegally charged with the failure to pay taxes yet the stamp duty she is accused of not remitting is not recognised as a tax in Kenyan tax laws. Read: Man petitions JSC over Mwilu removal, says she is untrustworthy “Kamotho has a legitimate interest to be enjoined in the instant judicial review proceedings and he has a duty to bring to the attention of the court pertinent issues to avert potential miscarriage of justice,” the application reads. He says there is looming danger and unless the DPP and DCI are restrained by the court, “they will continue to conduct prosecutorial affairs in outright disregard of the law to the detriment of the wider public”. The petitioner says the charges levelled against Mwilu on account of stamp duty related matters are legally unfounded, imaginary, unconstitutional and hollow in law. “The charge sheet does not comply with the provisions of Section 134 of the Criminal Procedure Code which requires every charge to state the specific offence with which an accused is charged, together with such particulars as may be necessary to disclose the nature of the offence charged,” the court document reads. Also read: Judiciary panic as DCJ Mwilu faces Sh12m graft charge According to Kamotho, the charge sheet against Mwilu does not disclose any prima facie case against her to warrant a criminal trial and is purely calculated to brandish prosecutorial power. He also argues the evidence adduced by the DPP and the police claiming to link Mwilu to the charges is “peripheral, remote and extremely tangential”, further saying that if the case is allowed to proceed, it would lead to an acquittal. Kamotho says Mwilu holds in public trust the critical office of the DCJ, so it is important that the “unlawful charges should be dismissed at the earliest stage to ensure her dignity, authority and operations of the Judiciary remain steadfast.” Last week, Fida also filed an application seeking to be enjoined in the case. The matter is scheduled to be heard today before Justice Chacha Mwita who will give direction on how it will proceed considering the many applications filed in the case. Click here for the latest political news 