At least 37 out of the 58 NASA MCAs have protested against ODM chairman John Mbadi's attempt to replace Nairobi assembly minority leader Elias Otieno and chief whip Peter Imwatok. The ward reps accused Mbadi of being misled by a 'few renegades' to make the decision without consultation. On Thursday, Mbadi unsuccessfully tried to replace Otieno with Highrise MCA Kennedy Oyugi and Imwatok with Lower Savannah ward representative Nicholas Okumu. The changes were immediately rejected by acting speaker Mwaura Chege on grounds that Mbadi did not follow the laid down procedure and standing order. The MCAs said they have never held a meeting to vote out Otieno and Imwatok. They said that the standing order requires that all members must take a vote and the resolution communicated to the speaker by the whip to replace the leaders. “We are the majority of the members who are in the assembly and we are not aware of the said decisions. No internal party conflict resolution mechanism has been deployed,” the MCAs said in a letter to Mbadi. A signed list of 37 members was attached. They said that the attempt to change the leadership of NASA in the assembly was barbaric, unconstitutional as it was done without consultation. Addressing a press conference at City Hall, the MCAs claimed that ‘only seven disgruntled' members were behind the attempted change of guard. He said that the renegades are disgruntled by the recent reshuffle of the committees. “They are now misleading the chairman to appear as if there are wrangles in the assembly. We are united and we want to tell those hell-bent to divide us to engage themselves in something else because they won’t succeed,” they said in a statement read by Viwandani MCA David Mbithi. Otieno said they had not committed any wrong to warrant their removal and accused an unnamed person of being behind his woes. Imwatok said that they reshuffled the committees after analyzing the performance of their members in the last one year. The changes, he said, also affected the majority side. Rejecting Mbadi’s changes, the speaker said the Standing Orders stipulates that changes in the party leadership in the House can only be communicated to the speaker by the whip, in writing. Also read: Speaker rejects Mbadi's removal of Nairobi Minority leader, whip Click here for the latest political news