Did Raila Odinga deploy more than reasonable political force in the just-concluded Migori senatorial by-election?  Observers, including a senior party official, have been heard wondering if ODM did not deploy unnecessary political arsenal when campaigning for Ochillo Ayacko against his 27-year-old opponent, Eddy Oketch. One official, who was on the ground, was overheard telling his colleagues that the force used on the ‘boy’ should have been reserved for a looming by-elections in one of the Nyanza counties.
 Corridors of Power recently overheard MPs discussing about the ‘generosity of their governors’. But one county boss from the Coast region was scathingly attacked in the conversation for being too stingy while another one from the same region was lauded for being very philanthropic to his area MPs. Another governor from a semi-arid region was praised for going to the extent of availing one county government vehicle to an MP to traverse the grassroots. “My governor is too stingy. During a certain fundraiser, he paraded area MCAs to give their donations as he gave out Sh15,000,” one MP was overheard saying. Well, being a governor is no walk in the park.
 An MP from Nyamira county could soon land himself in deep trouble if his clandestine operations are anything to go by. The MP, who is serving his first term, is said to be colluding with the NG-CDF board to siphon public funds through phony companies fronted by his proxies. A number of projects that were ongoing when his predecessor left have stalled. However, financial records show that money has been disbursed to fund the projects to completion. Is the MP pocketing public funds callously when taxpayers are suffering? A meeting held with officials of some road agency at the county to share roads money could be the straw that will break the camel’s back.
 A member of a troubled commission has been making frequent trips to a top government official’s residence to the bewilderment of colleagues. Reason? The commissioner whose latest visit was last week is said to be seeking protection from the lawman, who resides in Karen, over an ongoing probe at the commission. In return, the commissioner has reliably promised to help the man cleanup his files and cover-up his trails. The commissioner is said to be lobbying for the CEO’s position in the same commission upon expiry of their term. The commissioner is said to be fond of dropping names in the office to scare off fellow commissioners and threatens staff who don’t toe the line that they will be taught a lesson.