Former Kakamega senator Bonny Khalwale has declared his support for DP William Ruto but fell short of saying he had quit Ford Kenya. He said he made the decision after realising it will not be possible for any other candidate to defeat Ruto in 2022. "I have long experience in Kenya's politics and I know it's not possible to defeat a government candidate in an election," Khalwale said. Khalwale spoke at a fundraising for the United Pentecostal Evangelistic Church Kenya at Annex in Eldoret on Sunday. The leader said he was not supporting the DP because of financial benefits. More than 20 MPs allied to Ruto attended the meeting hosted by the DP's aide Farouk Kibet. "Please Church leaders I urge you to pray for leaders from my Luhya community who think I am in a commercial venture by doing what I am doing", said Khalwale. He said he had worked with Ruto for long and that they understand each other very well "DP Ruto knows me and I know him well because we have been friends and we have also fought," said Khalwale He said he met DP Ruto for 12 hours in Nairobi and they discussed politics in the country. Khalwale said Ruto has always been on the winning side in Kenya's politics. "That is why I have decided not to waste my time elsewhere," he said. Khalwale said he was already waiting for the IEBC to announce Ruto as President in 2022. He told Ford Kenya leader Moses Wetang'ula and his ANC counterpart Musalia Mudavadi that it's not a crime to work with Ruto. He said Mudavadi should accept to form an alliance with DP Ruto as his running mate. "When Mudavadi goes to get a running mate like Jeremiah Kioni and think he will make it then it's a dream," Khalwale said. He also welcomed the new AU job given to NASA leader Raila Odinga, saying it would help to attract new investments to Kenya. Kibet praised Ruto as a visionary leader. Kimilili MP Didmus Barasa was present. Khalwale criticised Cotu boss Francis Atwoli for claiming that he would control Luhya politics. "I saw him visiting retired President Daniel arap Moi, but he should not think he can control Luhya politics," Khalwale said. Click here for the latest political news 