Kenya's ambassador to Russia and former Sports PS Richard Ekai and two others yesterday denied abuse of office and graft charges arising from the Sh55 million Rio Olympics scandal. Ekai was charged alongside former National Olympics Committee of Kenya Secretary General Francis "FK Paul" Kanyili and the deputy NOCK treasurer Stephen Soi who was the team leader. The prosecution leveled six counts of abuse of office and four counts of willful failure to comply with the law relating to the management of public funds against the three. They are also accused of embezzlement of Sh22.5 million, Sh16.8 million in underutilised air tickets, Sh15.9 million in overpaid allowances, and Sh6.5 million expenditure on unauthorised persons. Read: Sh55m Rio scandal: Ex-PS Richard Ekai, two others deny graft charges They are co charged alongside former Sports CS Hassan Wario, former director of administration in the ministry Haron Komen, ex Finance officer Patrick Nkabu and former NOCK chairman and athletics legend Kipchonge Keino. The former PS was accused of procuring air tickets without proper planning whereby he incurred an expenditure of Sh 6, 590, 286 on unauthorised persons during the Rio 2016 Olympic games. He was also accused of willful failure to comply with public finance management laws by unlawfully authorising payments in excesses of Sh 15,907, 500 as allowances to the members of the team Kenya. Wario is accused of abuse of office where he allegedly conferring Sh 1, 506, 391 to Adan Enow by including him into the team to travel to Brazil. an act that resulted to loss of public funds. In the charge of abuse of office, FK Paul was accused of improperly conferring benefits of 24, 960 USD to his son Vincent Kanyili by including him into the Kenyan delegation which resulted to loss of public funds through payments of air tickets and allowances. He is jointly charged with Keino who irregularly included his son Ian Kipkosngei in the team. In the abuse of office count, the two are also charged with willfully failing to comply with public funds management regulations by unlawfully authorising payment in excesses of Sh 15, 907, 500 as allowances tom members of the Kenyan team. See also:DPP orders prosecution of Sports CS Wario over Rio scandal Ekai, FK Paul and Soi denied the charges before Chief Magistrate Douglas Ongoti. They were released on a Sh 2 million bond with a surety of a like sum each and alternative Sh1 million bail each. They were ordered to surrender their travel documents to the the court and be seeking them when authorised to travel. Ekai was allowed to travel to Moscow, Russia tomorrow where he will be handing over the office. Wario, Keino, Nkabu and Komen were not in court. Keino is in Sweden where he is receiving an award and is returning to the country on Wednesday. His lawyer Rubeena Dar opposed warrants of arrest against him sought by the prosecution. Ongoti directed the four to present themselves at the Directorate of Criminal Investigations headquarters on  Thursday at 6am failure to which a warrant of arrest will be immediately out. The magistrate directed them to be availed in court the following day for plea taking. A pretrial will be held on November 22 to prepare their trial and set hearing dates. More: Shiroya cleared over Rio scandal Click here for the latest political news