In
response to this, an officer of the French Embassy in Nairobi wrote a stern
rebuke of my dismissive reference to this large hydroelectric power dam. (The
French government had funded Turkwell, as a turnkey project). He
specified that a lot of the criticisms of this dam (and in those days there
were very many) were rooted in the initial impression that the dam had taken
far too long to fill up. This
had suggested to many observers that there really wasn’t enough water in the
Turkwell River to support such an ambitious project. But
ever since the dam had filled up, the generation of power had been proceeding
remarkably well, including during a recent drought which had affected the
region where the Turkwell Hydroelectric Power Station was based. For
me personally, this response to my casual aside about “Kenya’s premier white
elephant” was a defining moment: my subsequent research online was to reveal
that the French diplomat knew what he was talking about. Contrary
to the assumptions widespread in the media at the time, that the project was an
ineffectual white elephant - devised solely in order to plunder public funds -
this dam was actually providing Kenya with much-needed, clean, hydroelectric
power. More
recently, back in March 2011, an online forum which usually carries all kinds
of criticisms of Kenyan governments, had this to say about Turkwell: In [the year] 2000…Head of Public Service to
the Kenya Government, Richard Leakey, declassified the Turkwell Gorge
Government files to make them publicly accessible…Four feasibility studies were
carried out on the Turkwell project which estimated the cost at US $ 294 – US$
362 million…The Turkwell Hydro Electric Dam is now estimated to be the fourth
largest power producer out of KenGen’s power stations...  You
don’t have to agree with all this to accept that the routine statements in the
Kenyan media of some 15 years ago, that branded the Turkwell Gorge Project as a
pre-doomed white elephant were entirely misplaced. You may debate the overall
project cost. But you cannot say that it did not supply plenty of electricity
as intended.  AND NOW, HERE COMES THE MADARAKA
EXPRESS This
history serves as a reminder of just how easy it is for what is accepted wisdom
to be hopelessly off the mark. Especially when it comes to “the donor
community”. And
this is important because one of the issues currently taking centre stage in
the Kenyan media, is the inquiry into whether the new SGR railway – so proudly
launched just a year or so ago as the Madaraka Express – is actually a Trojan horse
intended to facilitate the takeover of Kenya’s ports and railways system, by
the Chinese government. This
rising anti-China sentiment is odd – even allowing for the fact that what some
suspect may in time happen in Kenya, has already happened in Sri Lanka, where
late last year, (as reported by the New York Times) “Struggling to pay its debt to
Chinese firms, the nation of Sri Lanka formally handed over the strategic port
of Hambantota to China on a 99-year lease…in a deal that government critics
have said threatens the country’s sovereignty.” It
is odd because the previous great infrastructure project in Kenya, funded and
implemented by the Chinese, which was the Thika Superhighway, was greeted with Hosannas
and Hallelujahs all around, as a marvel of modern engineering. And
if you go even further back, there was Kasarani Stadium – Kenya’s first truly
modern sports facility – which was built by the Chinese and whose completion
was likewise hailed with song and dance. So
what really is the problem with the SGR, that makes it so easy to persuade many
Kenyans that it is - to comprehensively mix metaphors - an albatross around our
necks; a monumental white elephant; as well as a Trojan horse?  THE GOLD STANDARD OF DONOR FUNDED
DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS To
gain a broader perspective on these issues, we need to consider what is arguably
the gold standard of donor funded development projects in Kenya: the building
of four big coastal bridges and Mombasa’s Moi International Airport expansion
project. These were carried out in phases by the Japanese development agency,
JICA, beginning in the late 1970s. These
projects facilitated the creation of Kenya’s modern tourism sector, which
remains a pillar of our economy, by clearing up a major transport bottleneck
which had up to then existed on the North Coast. Thanks
to these iconic and transformational bridges – the Nyali, Mtwapa, Kilifi, and
Sabaki bridges – multiple large chartered jets filled with tourists can now
land daily at Moi Airport, and the visitors can head swiftly towards their
hotels on the North Coast. Previously
they would have faced endless delays imposed by the old pontoon bridges which
were to be found both on the Nyali and the Mtwapa creeks. Not to mention the
Kilifi Ferry with its frequent breakdowns. These indispensable
infrastructure projects funded by JICA stimulated the construction of the long
string of beach hotels along the Kenya coast (about 105 “tourist class” hotels
in total) from Nyali in Mombasa County all the way to Mambrui in Malindi,
Kilifi County. Dozens of beachfront apartment complexes and various categories
of holiday homes have also since been built. This is how the
modern Kenyan tourism sector was born, with hundreds of thousands of new jobs
created. I
refer to these affiliated projects as the gold standard of donor funded
infrastructure projects, because they demonstrate the essence of the
“multiplier effect” which development economists dream of when weaving their
schemes: you spend money on one thing, and it generates all kinds of valuable
new economic activities, which continue long after your project is complete,
and deliver value substantially greater than the cost of the original project. And
infrastructure creation, when properly applied, is one of the surest ways of
achieving this effect. Indeed,
the other obvious example of this, recently witnessed, was in that very Thika
Superhighway, which – by easing the flow of traffic into and out of Nairobi – stimulated
the creation of vast modern real estate developments on former ranches as well
as former smallholder farms, all the way to Thika and beyond.  WHY THE TICAD PROCESS MATTERS There
is a TICAD consultative meeting taking place right now in Japan. Kenyans
have reason to appreciate what TICAD – the Tokyo International Conference on
Africa Development – represents, since the sixth TICAD summit was held here in
Nairobi in 2016 and came up with a Nairobi Declaration on priority areas for
Japanese development assistance to Africa. This
gives a clue as to why the Japanese development projects have usually been
found to have a huge “multiplier effect” on the Kenyan economy: The
major projects supported by the Japanese government arise from an intense and
transparent consultation process, with the guiding concept of, as the TICAD
website states, “African ownership; and international partnership”. And this emphasis
on “international partnership” is not just empty talk: The World Bank; the UN;
and the UNDP are the co-organizers as well as key
development partners in the TICAD process. Any resolution coming out of any key TICAD meeting,
thus reflects a broad international consensus, on how Africa’s most crucial
development challenges may be addressed.  THE QUESTION OF
INTEREST RATES – AND GRACE PERIODS But
there is more than that. Development
assistance loans from Japan are “concessional loans” that come with a generous
grace period (during which no repayment is required) of between five and ten years.
This allows the project to “mature” so to speak. And the interest rate charged
is invariably very low – between 0.1% and 1.5% - and with repayment periods of
up to 40 years. Given
such terms, the benefits of any new project will be manifestly obvious – and the
collection of revenues accruing directly, or indirectly, from the project, well
underway – long before there is any repayment to be made. There
was never any question of Kenya having the slightest difficulty in paying off
the loans that built the coastal bridges and expanded Moi Airport, for example,
once the revenues from increased tourism inflows started coming in. Long
before the initial payments were due, new jobs were created; greater tax
revenues collected; general consumption of goods and services by visiting
tourists enhanced; and the powerful “economic multiplier effect” flowing from these
projects, fully in operation. This
question of interest charged is absolutely central. In
a growing economy, concessional loans taken for development projects which are
well thought out, are usually very easy to repay. It
may well be that this is the crucial omission where the SGR is concerned. And
so we ask: Did
we get a concessional loan from the Chinese for the SGR? Did the loans come
with a generous grace period? Were
there multiple feasibility studies carried out, as was reportedly done with the
Turkwell Gorge Project?? And
if indeed carried out, did such feasibility studies all arrive at the
conclusion that the SGR would be as transformational in its impact on the
economy, as the Japanese-built bridges at the coast proved to be? In
short, did Kenya get value for money? And if so, then why are large scale
importers virtually being coerced to use this new railway? If
indeed the SGR ends up being a crushing weight on the backs of Kenyan
taxpayers, rather than an accelerator of development, we cannot really blame
China for this. The
blame will fall squarely with the Kenyan technocrats and leaders who failed to
negotiate advantageous and realistic terms — and to consider that it might have
been better to improve the old railway, rather than build a new one.     