Divisions among Central Kenya artistes over who to meet President Uhuru Kenyatta thwarted plans to hold the forum yesterday. The President had promised during last week’s burial of popular benga musician Joseph Kamara that he would meet them, after a plea by nominated MP Maina Kamanda through gospel artiste Ben Githae. On the agenda was how he could help them lift their living standards. Speaking to Word Is, Githae said: “I lost control of arranging the meeting because they all wanted to be included in the list. They formed social media groups with different members, saying I should not speak on their behalf because I am not the chairperson. All that noise was extended to Facebook.” The artiste regretted that it is not the first time such divisions have emerged among them. “Even if he (Uhuru) calls the pastors from Central Kenya, they will still fight. There was a time he called wazees and they divided themselves,” he said. “I asked the President to meet us and gave out our agenda, although initially it was not my idea. We had discussed as the committee because the opportunity we would be given to speak during the burial was limited, we would not have gotten a chance to speak. It was also not right to speak about our grievances at a burial.” Githae, who was a committee member in Kamaru’s burial, said after Uhuru agreed to meet them, one faction sidelined themselves from the rest, planning to choose the who is who for the meeting. A group of musicians from the region differed, saying some wanted to meet the President “for their own selfish gains” and not for the welfare of the artistes. “Even before the burial was over, different artistes started forming groups in regard to the meeting. They all wanted to be present,” Githae said. What was the cause of the divisions? “There are elections of the Music Copyright Society of Kenya going on, and artistes are fighting against each other because of the positions,” Githae said. “One of the CMO’s directors paid for a hall at Blue Springs Hotel so they could meet all the artistes planning to meet the President. I also attended, and after I left, they planned on how they would all meet at Uhuru Park on the said day and head to State House. “That is why the national government postponed the meeting between Uhuru and the musicians, asking to allow for adequate preparations.”