Five in every 10 Kenyans rely on saving accounts as their preferred method for growing wealth, according to the latest Stanchart Bank study on personal wealth creation. According to the findings, only 20 per cent bank on equities while 16 percent use fixed income investments to grow their wealth. Investment in mutual funds is the least considered way of making wealth at 13 percent. Released yesterday, the study titled Climbing the Prosperity Ladder attributes lack of in-depth financial knowledge among Kenyans as the main reason for the lag in embracing advanced wealth growth options. More than 38 percent say they feel held back in their aspirations by their lack of financial knowledge and more than 57 percent believe financial education would help them reach their financial goals faster. “This could explain why nearly half of Kenya’s emerging affluent feel far away from achieving their top financial goal. Although they are eager to invest, most may not be aware of all the solutions available to them," David Idoru, Head of Retail Banking, Standard Chartered Bank Kenya,  said. The study examined at least 11,000 emerging affluent consumers from Kenya and 10 markets across Asia, Africa and the Middle East. They were examined on the level of each person’s education, employment and property ownership against his or her parents’, as well as looking at the size of their personal income and how quickly it was increasing. Further findings from the study reveal that, at least 54 per cent of Kenyans are considered to have moved up the social status ladder vis-a-vis 39 per cent who are not socially mobile. The remaining seven per cent are considered to have climbed super fast up the ladder in the last one year. They are considered to own at least a car and a house. Besides, 61 per cent of the emerging affluent are socially mobile with 33 per cent of them reporting a salary increase by half or more in the last five years. While at this, the report reveals that only 19 per cent of the emerging affluent consider educating their children through University as a symbol of success. This even as 53 per cent of the emerging affluent think that the most important sign of achievement is increasing personal wealth over time. Other reasons considered as a symbol of success include owning a house (38%), rapid career progression (31%), owning a nice car (20%) and spending more money on leisure activities (20%) The study reveals that the number one financial goal for Kenya’s emerging affluent is saving towards their children’s education, while the most popular wealth growth strategy is investing in financial products.