President Uhuru Kenyatta has told early childhood education stakeholders the government will ensure quality education for children by 2030. Uhuru said on Wednesday his administration has developed a policy to serve as a guideline to ECDE teachers and learners. "Our target is to ensure that all Kenyan children are able to attend EDCE by the end of 2030," he said. The President spoke at Safari Park Hotel during the official opening of African Early Childhood Network International Conference on Early Childhood Development at Safari Park. Thirty-one counties were represented by governors' wives. The policy addresses incorporating pre-primary education in all counties, increasing child to teacher ratio and increasing teaching and learning materials. It also covers kids' playing equipment and improving teachers' training. Uhuru said the government has taken steps in ECDE research and knowledge sharing. Read:Exam cheating cartels identified, culprits to be prosecuted - Amina Also read: Uhuru assures KCPE, KCSE candidates of fair and secure 2018 exams The President said research has proved that his administration is on the right track since there is an increase in enrolment of children in ECDE centres. "Our commitment to strategic reforms to strengthen the primary education sector has resulted in notable achievements," he said. "There has been an increase in enrollment of pre-school children from 2.7 million in 2012 in 3.3 million in 2017." The President asked Education Cabinet Secretary Amina Mohammed to be strict for the ministry to achieve its goals. "Work with the county governments in early childhood development to ensure coordination of services across ministries as well as departments," he said. Uhuru said the number of teachers trained for ECDEs has increased. Noting that ECDE is a devolved function, the President urged governors and stakeholders to ensure services are improved and children are properly fed. Uhuru also gave a stern warning to all those attempting to compromise standards in the education sector. He wished the Kenya Certificate of Primary Education and Kenya Certificate of Secondary Education candidates success in the national examinations. "All those who are corrupting our education system, we shall come for you," he said. On Monday, Amina said they have identified examination cartels. She said the perpetrators will be arrested and prosecuted. Click here for the latest political news     