The controversy surrounding water companies in Murang’a has continued to escalate after Murang’a South Water and Sanitation Company chairman Julius Manyeki denied handing over its assets to the county government. The chairman said reports that the company handed over the management of the company to the county government are lies. Manyeki said this just a week after the management of the company announced that they had initiated the process of transferring its assets to the county government. Minutes of a board meeting held on October 16 indicated that members had agreed to transfer the assets of the company. In the meeting held at the company’s offices in Kandara town, members agreed that one of the company’s shareholders, Maragua county Council, had become defunct. The mandate of the other stakeholder which is Tana Water Services Board had been changed in accordance to the Water Act 2016. According to the minutes, the management acknowledged that the assets of the company should be subsumed to the county government according to the County governments act. Members then resolved to transmit 4,997 ordinary shares worth Sh. 20 each that were owned by Tana Water Services Board to the county government, one share to the county secretary, one to Finance CEC and the last one to Water CEC. The company secretary was then authorized to effect the transfer with the registrar of companies. Manyeki admitted having called for the board meeting whose main agenda was to discuss the issue of shares. “During the meeting, governor Mwangi wa Iria visited us and after we concluded the meeting that we found journalists waiting,” Manyeki said. “The reports that were published in the media the following day were not the things we agreed in the meeting. I know the reports were skewed, whether deliberately or not to taint my image and that of some prominent local leaders that we love,” Manyeki said. Wa Iria had in the meeting alluded that Murang’a Water and Sanitation Company chairman Peter Munga was acting as the prefect of the five water companies and influencing them into challenging the county government in court. Manyeki said the reports had angered his board as its decisions were independent and not influenced by anyone. “I want to make it clear that we have no enmity with anyone and have not been tricked into doing anything. Those are respected leaders and saying that they have been tricking has irked us,” he added. “Reports that the board had handed over leadership of the water company to the county government is also a lie. We did no such thing,” the chairman said in Kikuyu dialect. He noted that water firms have autonomy granted by the constitution even though they are agents of county governments and that he would call for a board meeting to discuss the issue. He lauded Water Cabinet Secretary Simon Chelugui for issuing a statement on October 19 indicating that the process of transferring water companies’ assets was ongoing especially the identification of assets and liabilities. Chelugui said water firms have until June next year to complete the transfer process and that assets not owned by the defunct local authorities are owned by the national government and the status quo has to be respected. When contacted, the firm’s managing director Mary Nyaga declined to comment.