Wajir governor Mohamed Abdi Mohamud has tabled new evidence before the Supreme Court in his bid to affirm that he studied and graduated at Kampala University. The apex court on September 28 allowed the county boss' application in which he had accused the lower courts of attacking his education credentials. He has maintained that he holds a degree from the university, the same being accredited by the Commission for University Education (CUE). The governor’s election was nullified by the High Court and Court of Appeal but he moved to the Supreme Court seeking to overturn the decision. Read: Wajir governor Mohamed Abdi's election nullified Former Wajir governor Ahmed Abdullahi, who ran on the ODM ticket, challenged Abdi’s victory citing grounds of the latter's academic qualification. In his sworn affidavit, Abdi adduced an admission letter from Kampala University dated July 29, 2009. He produced sworn affidavits by his former fellow students from the institution – Ahmed Mohamed Isaack and Yussuf Shueb Abdullahi. Further, the embattled county chief produced a sworn affidavit by Ssegawa Hamza, who is the current Registrar of Academics, confirming that he studied and graduated there. Another sworn affidavit by Evans Kerosi Somoni, an academic registrar from the facility from 2005 to 2011, avers that the county boss was admitted as student of the university. The governor also attached sworn affidavits of lecturer James Openson Nyakweba and former lecturer Wairimu Bilhah Kiragu to confirm that he attended their classes. "My academic documents for both the undergraduate and post graduate education together with the letter from the commission of education are hereby attached," the governor stated. "My clearance form dated December 10, 2011, upon successfully completing my degree at Kampala University is hereby attached." On September 28, the Supreme Court held that Mohamud did not get a fair trial at the lower courts and allowed him to bring new evidence to support his claims. The court also allowed the deputy governor to be joined in the case. Six judges ruled that the evidence to be submitted will not be prejudicial to the other parties. See: Supreme Court allows Governor Abdi to introduce new evidence They said the court’s rules allows them to admit new evidence but the powers should be used sparingly. The judges ruled that they were not convinced that Abdi was given a fair hearing. The Court of Appeal upheld a decision by Justice Alfred Mabeya of the High Court that nullified his election on grounds that his academic papers were questionable and so he was ineligible to run for election last year. Judges Phillip Waki, Patrick Kiage, and Milton Makhandia ruled that Abdi wasted a chance to tell his side of the story when he failed to respond to the allegation raised against him. Mabeya ruled that Mohamud was not validly cleared to run for governor and pointed out discrepancies in Form 37B. "The election was not fair and credible as required by the Electoral Laws Act," he said, adding voters were assisted in the process, thereby compromising integrity. Mabeya cited irregularities including the opening of some of the ballot boxes that had been sealed. The court also found that some forms had alterations yet there were no counter-signatures as required by the law. Click here for the latest political news