Church leaders will be required to undergo mandatory vetting to ascertain whether they are linked to any criminal activities. This will be if the Senate adopts the Prevention of Terrorism Bill, 2018, which is an amendment to the Prevention of Terrorism Act. Nominated Senator Naomi Waqo, the proposer, wants institutions' leaders held liable in the event their members are radicalised. The Bill will also see teachers vetted to check on their backgrounds whether they are fit to handle children. Waqo, in the proposed law, says institution administrators will be held liable for radicalisation of learners under their care. She said the Bill does not delegate legislative powers nor does it limit the fundamental rights and freedoms. The lawmaker says the Bill's principal object is to amend the Act to provide for the duty of institution administrators to counter radicalisation and violent extremism. This, she argues will be achieved by building the resilience of learners through training, building strong support and care networks for students, working with key institutions to counter ideological challenges associated with terrorism. Read: Leaders fault police for doing ‘too little’ to fight terrorism "Schools administrators will be required to keep and update records of all their students ensure teachers are trained to detect extremist behaviour in students and collaborate with key stakeholders in countering radicalisation." Senators on Tuesday welcomed the Bill terming it is 'godsend'. Busia Senator Amos Wako said the amendment will address specific issues, especially challenges of reporting suspicious characters. His Isiolo counterpart Fatuma Dullo said there is the need for the government to invest in research-based approach to fighting radicalisation. "We must also ask if our police have the capacity in terms of equipment and skills to detect radicalisation. To what extent can they say someone has been radicalised." "Do we have a competent Judiciary and courts that are equipped to handle such cases? With this in place, we can now say we are on the right path to end radicalisation," she said. Read: Are Muslims Part of War on Terror? Her sentiments were echoed by Senator Judith Pareno who said vetting of teachers is the way to go. The legislator said teachers bear the biggest responsibility in shaping the future of children and if they landed in bad hands radicalisation chances can be very high. "If we vet Cabinet secretaries and other public servants, why not teachers?" she asked. "We need to check on their backgrounds to established whether they have links with terror groups." In 2016, the Teacher Service Commission said teachers would not be subjected to any vetting. CEO Nancy Macharia said the amended Code of Conduct and Ethics does not contain a clause requiring teachers to be vetted or declare their assets. Read: Teachers will not be vetted, says TSC There has been anxiety this week as teachers thought they would be subjected to vetting similar to that the police have undergone. In 2012, former Chief Justice Willy Mutunga proposed that the judiciary vet bishops and pastors to ensure that people with integrity are bestowed with leadership positions. Read: ACK cleric backs Mutunga’s call to vet church leaders Click here for the latest political news