I congratulate the Right Honourable Prime Minister for his appointment as AU High Representative for Infrastructure Development. Those who imagine that his appointment will make him retire from politics are having wild dreams. Raila Odinga is here to stay and the new position will only activate and increase his political activities. I have heard many people say that he is now a dead man politically, but that’s wishful thinking. Why are they so bothered with him being in politics or not? He will have another office in Nairobi, complete with staff and advisers, to keep his Building Bridges initiative with Uhuru on track and also manage his local presence. He will definitely be controlling what goes on here in Kenya. Besides, while he will be criss-crossing the continent and world to push for Africa’s infrastructure development, Kenya is bound to benefit through various sectors and that will boost our economy. Raila’s appointment shows his influence has transcended Kenyan borders and now is appreciated across the continent. History clearly indicates that appointments to special envoy positions of this magnitude with well-defined roles have largely been a preserve of prominent personalities, including former heads of state. Those castigating him should appreciate that we have one of our own recognised and rewarded by the continent. Just like the person of Raila, the holder of this office must be a person of influence with crossborder diplomatic networks and a proven record of success. His performance in several government positions was among the reasons he was appointed. In fact, since his job is well cut out for him, Kenya is bound to benefit immensely through infrastructure development. This will endear him more to the people of Kenya and position him for the presidency in 2022. Besides, Raila will be lobbying African heads of state as a Pan-Africanist to achieve the ideals and restore the derailed dream of integrating Africa. Again, this will give him an experience that he will use in transforming our country should he win the 2022 elections. The Nominated Senator spoke to the Star Click here for the latest political news