A new book by a children’s heart surgeon brings a hopeful
message about how to achieve healthy living.
I Am Healing, Health and Happiness by Mark Awori, a paediatric doctor based
in Nairobi, is the second book in a series he plans on health, wealth and
secure living. Awori discusses physiological matters such as pain acting
as a warning signal and the body’s innate ability to heal itself, and practical
issues like health insurance and the role of doctors in channelling
wellness. A staunch Christian who once contemplated becoming a
pastor, Awori also draws from Bible scriptures to explain health and sickness. “God’s
plan for humanity is He wants you healthy, wealthy and safe,” he says. He delves into the role of faith in the healing process
and spiritual explanations for illness, injury and sickness in children. “In a
nutshell, what I’m telling people is, you don’t have to be sick. Health is
available to every human being.” Diagnosis of cardiac disease in Kenyan children is still
low primarily, says Awori, due to inadequate health systems and a shortage of
skilled clinical personnel. He was part of a team that established the
paediatric heart surgery unit at Gertrude’s Children’s Hospital 5 years ago. One of just 12 paediatric heart surgeons in Kenya, Awori,
48, is the only one who focuses purely on children. He says the most satisfying
aspect of his work is, “Seeing the face of parents when we have performed
successful surgery.” The same sense of optimism and certainty that everyone can
achieve good health permeate the book. I was intrigued by his spiritual explanations for the
causes of suffering and tragedy, a number of which seem incompatible with
conventional religious teachings. Some readers may have trouble with the
suggestion that sickness is linked to distance from God. But, says Awori, “I
warn people you may not be ready for this so skip to the next chapter.” The writing style is easy to understand with hardly any
complicated medical terminology. Awori has intentionally kept the book’s layout
is simple, sometimes with just a few paragraphs per page, because he wanted
people to retain the information more easily. However, I would not have minded
more practical content on how to enjoy perfect health, a deeper review of
holistic solutions to sickness or connecting healthy living to wholesome spirituality. Awori maintains a busy schedule of attending to patients
in two hospitals, lecturing in the University of Nairobi’s School of Medicine, family
life and making time to write books. He attributes this to having identified
his life’s purpose of becoming a children’s heart surgeon and using his medical
knowledge to simplify health matters to ordinary people. In the book he points
at the pursuit of meaningful existence as key to happiness and good
health. This self-published book is available from Amazon in a digital
version or as a hardcopy that can be delivered to Kenyan addresses via the online
shopping platform called VituMob.