A House committee says Dr Samira Soni is presently not a recognised eye specialist. The National Assembly Health team wants the Medical Practitioners and Dentists’ Board to cancel her practice licence and have her undergo fresh accreditation. In a report tabled on Wednesday, the committee chaired by Sabina Chege (Murang’a) also told the Prof George Magoha-led board probe Soni over claims of medical misconduct “in her previous engagements”. The report is to be debated. Soni has blamed his woes on competitors. She told the committee she was being victimised by some doctors because of her excellent skills. Two weeks ago when Magoha appeared before the MPs, he said Soni was cleared to practise after satisfying requirements. However, the bone of contention was the two referees forwarded to the board to certify her for recognition. Soni graduated from the University of Nairobi with a degree in medicine in 1987. She had submitted the names of Dr Fayaz Khan and Dr Millicent Kariuki as her referees. Magoha said Soni worked under Kariuki at Upper Hill Medical Centre from 2004-06 and moved to Lions Blood Centre, Mombasa, between 2006-08. Soni later returned to work under Kariuki from July 2008 to December 2010 and in January-November 2011. She worked at Eagle Eye and Laser Centre before she founded her own facility, Eye and U Opthalmic Limited, in May 2014. She applied for recognition in February 2009 but was rejected after it was found she had not worked under supervision in a recognised facility. Soni reapplied in November 2013, this time changing her referees. She submitted the names of Dr Jyotee Trivedy and Dr Margaret Njuguna. Dr Trivedy certified her for recognition while Njuguna disqualified herself. In May 2014, Dr Soni wrote an appeal letter to the board asking Magoha to consider her reapplication. The board based its decision from the first recommendation by Kariuki and the one by Trivedy. “The board noted that Dr Soni’s application met the minimum requirements for recognition as a specialist ophthalmologist under the Medical Practitioners and Dentist (Private Practice) Rules 1979 Rule 2,” Magoha told the committee. “It was noted that Lion’s Eye Sight First Hospital, Mombasa, was not a recognised institution for ophthalmology at the time. In the subsequent appeal, Dr Soni demonstrated she worked with Kariuki, a recognised specialist, for at least six years and under Dr Ilako, a recognised specialist, for at least one year.” Click here for
the latest political news