Queen Elizabeth's grandson Prince Harry and his wife Meghan Markle are expecting their first child, due in the spring of 2019, the couple's office Kensington Palace announced on Monday. The baby will be seventh-in-line to the British throne. British media said Meghan was believed to be about 12 weeks pregnant. "Their Royal Highnesses have appreciated all of the support they have received from people around the world since their wedding in May and are delighted to be able to share this happy news with the public," the palace said in a statement. The news emerged shortly after the royal couple landed in Australia for their first overseas tour, a busy trip which will also take in New Zealand and the South Pacific islands of Tonga and Fiji. Harry, the son of heir-to-the-throne Prince Charles and his late first wife Princess Diana, and Meghan, former star of TV show "Suits", married in a glittering ceremony at the queen's Windsor Castle home, west of London, five months ago which attracted huge interest worldwide. The couple returned to the castle for the marriage of Harry's cousin Princess Eugenie on Friday which was attended by all the senior members of the British royal family. Media said Harry and Meghan broke the news of the pregnancy to other members of the royal family at the wedding. The couple landed in Australia on Monday a day before the official start of their first overseas tour as a married couple. It is the second tour of Australia by the younger generation of royals, after Prince William, Kate and their eldest son, George, visited in 2014. The Duke and Duchess of Sussex are to ride a ferry across Sydney Harbour past the Opera House on Tuesday, as well as watch an indigenous contemporary dance troupe and see koalas at the Taronga Zoo. The couple will meet farmers affected by a severe drought on Wednesday. Their trip coincides with the Invictus Games to be held in Sydney from October 20-27. The games founded by Harry are an international paralympic-style event for military personnel wounded in action. Harry and Meghan will also visit New Zealand and the South Pacific islands of Tonga and Fiji during their tour. Australia, a constitutional monarchy whose head of state is the British monarch, voted in 1999 against becoming a republic. Support for a republic hovered around 50 percent in a January poll, a level largely unchanged in recent years, and there is little appetite to put the issue back on the agenda. Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison, who took the top job in August after a backbench revolt ousted predecessor Malcolm Turnbull, is a constitutional monarchist. Click here for the latest political news