Governor Lee Kinyanjui has ordered the renaming of Nakuru streets after Kenyan figures and heroes to honour their contribution to development. Buildings will also be repainted as part of a beautification programme to help achieve city status.Rusty roofs and dilapidated buildings will be replaced. Kinyanjui on Saturday said most streets bear English and Asian names that are not significant. Among those whose names will appear on renamed streets and roads is Lena Moi, the wife of former President Daniel Moi. Lena lived a quiet life until her death in July 2004. “Maragoli Road in Milimani estate will be renamed Lena Moi Road in recognition of the contribution made by the former First Lady,” Kinyanjui said during Mashujaa Day celebrations at Afraha Stadium. Veteran politician Koigi Wamwere, former Governor Kinuthia Mbugua, Kihika Kimani, Mark Mwithaga, Fred Kubai, Kibowen Komen and Alicen Chelaite will also have their names on the streets. Philanthropist Dhanji Parmar who died in July will also be recognised for his assistance to the poor and for being a patriot. “Teacher Mawanga Road will be renamed Koigi Wa Wamwere Road to honour his fight for democracy and the second liberation,” Kinyanjui said. The former Subukia MP was detained for 14 years. “I appreciate the recognition. I hope other counties will emulate it,” Wamwere who attended the celebrations said. Others to be recognised include former mayors Josek Thuo, Samuel Mithamo and D.K. Kanyi and educationist Eyleen Gochoch. Naivasha industrialist Tabitha Karanja will have a road named after her. Roads will be renamed after Lord Delamere and Lord Egerton, who pioneered agriculture and education in the county. The governor said the road leading to Lake Nakuru National Park will be renamed after the last male Northern White Rhino — Sudan, which died in April. Kinyanjui said they greatly contributed to the social, political and cultural development of the county. “Nakuru has a special place in the history of this country and it is never short of people who have made Kenyans proud over the years,” Kinyanjui said. Other streets to be renamed include Landhies, Pandit Nehru, Lower Bedi, Kalewa, Thura, Harvester and Kufanya. Kinyanjui said buildings must have modern tiles and coloured roofs. Owners have been asked to instal proper garbage disposal and drainage systems that comply with the Public Health Act. They must also fix gutters for harvesting rainwater, Kinyanjui said. The county wants to restore Nakuru’s status as the cleanest town in East Africa. In 2011 the UN praised the area for its cleanliness. However, Kinyanjui said the situation has deteriorated. He wants the town to regain its reputation and attain city status. Kenya has only three cities, Nairobi, Mombasa and Kisumu. City status means more state grants, investment and benefits for seconded state workers. In 2013, UN Habitat listed Nakuru as one of the fastest-growing towns in East and Central Africa. The growth was attributed to its central location in relation to other towns including Nairobi, Kisumu, Eldoret and Nyeri. Its location gives Nakuru an edge in business.