The World Bank issued its bi-annual #AfricaPulse report last week. ''Economic growth in Sub-Saharan Africa is estimated to have picked up to 2.7 percent in 2018 from 2.3 percent in 2017, barely above population growth. The region’s economic recovery continues but at a slower pace than expected (0.4 percentage points lower than the April forecast), due to downward growth revisions in the three largest economies in the region. The road ahead is bumpy'' Of course the three biggest Economies South Africa, Nigeria and Angola [making up 50% of SSA GDP] weighed on economic activity. I found this data point interesting Countries with economic performance that lost steam in 2015–18 relative to 1995–2008 represent about one-third of the region’s population and nearly 60 percent of its economic activity. Their median rate of GDP growth decelerated from 5.4 percent per year in 1995–2008 to 1.2 percent per year in 2015–18. This group includes the three largest countries in the region (Nigeria, South Africa, and Angola), and has an average GDP per capita of about US$2,696. Half of SSA [from Buhari to Lourenco to Ramaphosa] is firing blanks and all are looking around for a Silver Bullet. Growth in the rest of the region was broadly steady, but performance varied across countries. Economic activity remained solid in the fast-growing non-resource-rich countries, such as Côte d’Ivoire, Kenya, and Rwanda, supported by agricultural production and services on the production side, and household consumption and public investment on the demand side. A SSA Economist has also got to be an accomplished Meteorologist because Rains have an outsize effect on GDP and ''well-being'' Good Rains have underpinned GDP in this part of Africa and popped it. During 2012–17, government debt is estimated to have increased by more than 20 percentage points in the region. Debt rose in about two-fifths of the countries in 2017 and was above 60 percent of GDP in one-third of the countries. Clearly, even with the latest fashion of super-sizing one's GDP a la Ghana and Zimbabwe, the Debt Trajectory is not sustainable. At the end of 2017, eight countries (Chad, Eritrea, Mozambique, the Republic of Congo, Somalia, South Sudan, Sudan, and Zimbabwe) were classified as in debt distress under the World Bank–International Monetary Fund Debt Sustainability Framework. Additionally, the previous moderate ratings for The Gambia, Zambia, and Ethiopia more recently were changed to high risk of debt distress. What we know is dominoes are set to fall. One Domino that has suddenly tipped over is Zimbabwe. Reuters reported that People again formed long queues to fill up their cars in the capital, with others panic-buying basic goods like cooking oil and sugar. There are $9.3 billion of Zollars in banks compared to $200 million in reserves, official data showed, a mismatch that creates a premium for the U.S. dollar and fans the black market. On the black market, the premium for the U.S. dollar spiked to a new record on Saturday, reaching 165 percent from 120 percent on Monday, traders said That means buying $100 in cash via a bank transfer cost $265, up from $220 earlier this week. The Government's ''Voodoo Economics'' where it spent $1.3b pump-priming the Economy ahead of the Election [money it did not have] was the straw that broke the camel's back.