Two Siaya MPs and seven MCAs have backed Ugunja lawmaker Opiyo Wandayi to succeed governor Cornel Rasanga in 2022. Rasanga is serving his last term and campaigns to succeed him are slowly taking shape. Rasanga has declared interest in running for the Senate.  Among those expected to run for governor are Wandayi, Senator James Orengo and former Rarieda MP Nicholas Gumbo. Gumbo lost to Rasanga last year. On Saturday, MPs Chris Karan (Ugenya) and Samuel Atandi (Alego Usonga) backed Wandayi for the county’s top job. The MPs said they have worked with Wandayi and were satisfied with his performance. Atandi said Wandayi overwhelming supported Rasanga and they were ready to return the favour if the Ugunja MP runs for governor. He said the people of Alego Usonga have to support those who supported them, given that they cannot run for the seat in 2022. Rasanga comes from Alego Usonga. A deal reached during the 2013 elections requires the next governor to come from a constituency other than Alego Suonga. “If you decide to give us Wandayi as your preferred Siaya governor in 2022, we will have no option but to support him,” Atandi said. Karan said Wandayi’s development record speaks for itself. “He is the kind of a leader the county needs,” Karan said. Karan, whose election has since been nullified, said Wandayi has demonstrated good leadership qualities as the chairman of the National Assembly’s Public Accounts Committee. “We the people of Ugenya will give him our support without conditions,” Karan said. The MCAs led by Winny Otieno said they will align themselves with leaders like Wandayi because of their bright visions. Otieno said Wandayi should quickly declare his interest in the seat so they can start selling his vision. Other MCAs who pledged support for Wandayi included James Otare (Siaya Township), Nick Ochola (North Gem), Samuel Olasi (West Uyoma), Odero Rambula (Ugunja), Winny Perpetual (Central Gem) and Joseph Wandera (Sidindi). The politicians spoke in Ugunja during the launch of the constituency’s strategic plan. Wandayi has earlier been endorsed  by Alego Usonga boda boda riders. Wandayi said he respects everyone’s opinion but will declare his stand at “the right time”.