The DCI is investigating alleged manipulation and diversion of funds meant for stipends for junior prison officers involved in Mashujaa Day national celebrations in Kakamega county. This follows complaints made against the expenditure on the welfare kitty. Kakamega county DCI boss John Onyango yesterday confirmed officers were investigating the Prisons Department and will interrogate senior accounting officers. “A number of prison officers who were engaged in the celebrations for a period of one month have so far recorded statements. We are now moving the probe to Nairobi to establish how much money was released,” he said. According to investigations, Sh2 million was received by the regional prisons office to be shared among 211 prisons officers as stipends. Members of the prisons team comprised one officer in the rank of superintendent and one chief inspector, four inspectors, two senior sergeants and nine sergeants. The camp also had 13 prison corporals and 181 prisons constables. Chief inspector got sh20,000 Each of the officers in camp was entitled to breakfast, lunch and supper every day for 30 days and an undisclosed daily stipend. Some of the affected officers however claimed that they were served with breakfast only for the entire period. Police said each officer was entitled to three meals and a stipend. The 181 officers each got paid Sh9,000, the senior sergeants, sergeants and corporals were paid Sh12,000 each, the inspectors Sh15, 000 and the superintendent and chief inspector got Sh20,000 each. Officer in charge of Kakamega prison Henry Ochieng’ confirmed recording a statement with CID officers on the matter but declined to divulge more details. He distanced himself from any wrongdoing, saying he disbursed all the money received from the prisons headquarters as instructed. “I received Sh2 million last September 19 and paid each officer,” he said. President Uhuru Kenyatta reaffirmed his commitment to fight corruption in both the government and private sector. He urged Kenyans to join the war on graft.