The Presidential Task Force on Parastatals Reforms submitted its report to President of Uhuru Kenyatta on October 2013. Among the proposals is the scrapping or merger of parastatals to save the economy millions of shillings. The institutions affected include the Youth Enterprise Development Fund, Uwezo Fund, Women Enterprise Development Fund, Micro- and Small Enterprise Authority — to be amalgamated into the Public Finance Management Act (Biashara Kenya Fund). Despite the President’s directive that the reforms be implemented within three months from the date of report submission, regulations to guide the Biashara Kenya Fund were just approved on May 15, 2018, in a Cabinet meeting — five years since the report was presented. Nonetheless, in an interview in August, Public Service CS Margaret Kobia said the Biashara Kenya Fund would be implemented in six months. Timelines are the heartbeat of every project, capturing the essence of what it will accomplish and how. My hope is that the ministry will remain committed to the stated timelines. The government has focussed on creating an enabling environment for youth, women and people living with disability to do business by providing credit and capacity-building programmes. Affirmative action funds have made it easier for these groups to access credit. But how sustainable are these businesses after getting loans? Statistics show a high failure rate among emerging micro- and small enterprises, most have a very low survival rate within their first three years. Biashara Kenya Fund provides a perfect opportunity to invest in development support for these enterprises. The affirmative action funds have so far been helping in capacity building and entrepreneurship training but not for the long term. The target group of Uwezo Fund, YEDF, WEDF, MSEA beneficiaries falls under micro- and small enterprises, meaning the funds can pool resources to provide business development support. With the President having allocated Sh2 billion annually to Biashara Kenya, lending at six per cent interest, the main objective of this fund should not only be to offer credit but also ensure investment in sustainable businesses. And to ensure this, there is need to invest in long-term business development support, such that the businesses would access funding only when they commit to receiving these services. Devolution gave rise to 45 Huduma Centres, with five in Nairobi. The centres and other government institutions can provide a hub for the business development services, being that the centres are already a one-stop-shop for most government services. One of the objectives of Biashara Kenya Fund, as stated in the regulations, is to support capacity building through training, incubation, mentorship, start-up support and promotion of innovation and development of products. While access to capital and markets are still challenges, this Fund provides a new era to invest in business development. The aim of the fund should be to invest in businesses that will survive after three years and looking to scale up, therefore providing more stable and favourable jobs. Achieving this requires informal businesses to mature into formal, professionally managed enterprises. We must recognise most youth, more so in the informal sector, venture into business to escape hardships and poverty. Investment in business development can change their mindset to run formal enterprises. This fund is a huge policy achievement and could be a platform to reduce unemployment, conduct research and publish public reports and create a database of micro- and small enterprises. There are a few surveys that have been conducted on MSEs. There is also evidence of research on factors that prohibit financial inclusion, but much on the impact policies and affirmative action have on micro enterprises in the long run. Such research is crucial in developing alternative models and providing a way forward in developing the MSE sector. MSEs contribute about 18 per cent of the GDP, employ millions and consume and pay for public-funded services through licences and taxes. Considering the huge public debt, investment in business development support is a sure win for the youth and country.