The Flying Squad was yesterday in hot pursuit of two policemen suspected of kidnapping a motorist in Athi River on Saturday evening. The officers are corporal Kennedy Ojwang’ and constable Moses Njagi. They had hijacked Philemon Okelo at Delta Petrol Station along Mombasa Road and demanded Sh300,000 from his wife as ransom, according to a police brief. They took him around Kayole and Kangundo Road and eventually abandoned him at the Shell Petrol Station along Ruiru Bypass. The cops and two civilians — Richard Ondiek and a fourth man identified only as Ben — escaped arrest. They had been cornered in Ruiru by three police officers — Kyule Kimanzi, Idris Noor and Mercy Arora. Their accomplices constable Kelvin Ndosi of Central police station and civilian Michael Ochieng were arrested. Ndosi was found with a police radio. Okelo reported to Mama Lucy Kibaki AP camp that he was hijacked by a four-man gang in possession of a police pocket phone and forced him in his car [KBP 464Z]. Okelo’s car was towed to Ruiru police station and the pocket phone kept as exhibit. Ndosi and Njagi have a pending case in which they were charged with robbery with violence on September 26. They were charged alongside policeman Mohamed Ojala with violently robbing a businessman of cash and property worth Sh5,463,000 at an apartment in Kilimani, Nairobi. They are accused of robbing Abdoulaye Bathly of $8000 (Sh83,000 ) and three watches valued at $15,000 (Sh150,000 ) each, two mobile phones and credit cards on September 16. The prosecution said they were armed with a pistol during the robbery. They denied the charges before chief magistrate Francis Andayi and were released on a surety bond of Sh500,000 each with an alternative cash bail of Sh200,000. A brief sent to police headquarters indicated the officers sped off with vehicle KBU 634U belonging to Nairobi area police command. Nairobi police commander Joseph ole Tito said he unsuccessfully sought details of the incident from Flying Squad boss Musa Yego. Click here for
the latest political news 