For the first time in our history — since Independence
— we have a Constitution that compels the state to observe and protect the
sanctity of civil liberties and individual freedoms. This is even at the risk
of some citizens abusing these liberties and freedoms. It is precisely as a result of
letting civil liberties blossom that social media has grown by leaps and
bounds. Kenya now holds the distinct
reputation as the original home of M-Pesa, a revolution in mobile banking and
financial transactions, which has not, so far, been surpassed anywhere on this
mother earth. And might perhaps remain so for some years to come. But there is an old adage that ought to hold
for all those who use social media in our nation: With liberty ought to come
responsibility. The old English utilitarians used to argue that every
individual has a right to personal liberty. But this liberty must not be used
to infringe on the liberty of another or the liberties of others. Unfortunately,
those who say anything and anyhow in social media are infringing upon so many
people’s liberties. On October
12-13 this year, the Lakeside Media
Expo, organised by the DW Akademie, was held at the Tom Mboya Labour College in
Kisumu. The main focus of this year's event was the role of free and
independent media in Kenya in times of disinformation, hate speech, corruption
and economic challenges. The following question was posed: What pioneering role
can the major national media play in overcoming these problems, and to what
extent can smaller local media houses contribute to solutions? I want to
address myself to this question before I come back to some idiotic irresponsibility
I have come across in social media that needs urgent attention. First, let me begin by commending the major
national media, print and electronic, for the role they have played in
informing Kenyans on what is going on in our country, including some touchy
issues such as corruption, which occasionally put them at loggerheads with the
powers that be. Let me also commend them for covering news from the counties,
even though it is sometimes superficial and even erroneous. Second, let me call attention of the national
media to a terrible culture that has now become almost a "normal"
practice in newsgathering and news dissemination. I have noticed that, whether
in Nairobi or in Kisumu, reporters tend to take it for granted that they must
be "given something" for them to report events or press conferences
they are supposed to cover. I think this goes against the grain
of a free, independent and responsible media. But there may be a genuine reason
why reporters do this: Their employers may not properly and adequately pay them.
And employers may have come to accept that "brown envelopes" properly
subsidise the low wages they pay their reporters and stringers. Either way, the
independence of the media is being compromised since "he who pays the
piper calls the tune." I hope something will be done by the Media Owners
Association and the Kenya Union of Journalists to revive the dignity of the
Fourth Estate that people like Phillip Ochieng', Peter Mwaura and Kwendo Opanga
ought to have bequeathed to the generation of today. Back to social media. This has been a tremendous
invention of our time: WhatsApp, Instagram, Facebook, Messaging, email,
you name it! News now travels like lightening. Information is available online
galore! Through WhatsApp, one can call a friend in New York without feeling the
cost. Wonderful. But I get upset at irresponsible fellows who can somehow get
my cell number and send me offensive messages, thereby invading my space
irresponsibly and extremely unethically. We are told that such cyber crimes can
be reported to the police. Believe you me, irresponsibility has seeped down
into the crevices of almost every public agency that ought to protect your
civil liberties and mine in this country. We can hardly enjoy being civil,
while others are irreverently uncivil to the core in social media. Talking of disinformation and all that, you
only need to belong to one of these WhatsApp groups to realise how utterly
irresponsible people are at spreading disinformation. Just because I am a governor,
the so-called friends of mine have put me into multiple groups, where I find
myself with some of the strangest bedfellows. Flipping down the conversations,
I quite often discover some individuals who contribute to the multiple groups 24/7. I begin to wonder what else these
people do for a living, or whether they actually have full-time jobs as
"WhatsAppers"! What is even more worrying is the disinformation they
are preoccupied with! This is at times understandable since one individual
cannot possibly be an authority on the numerous issues that come up from one
conversation to the other. I guess once social media was born, we needed to
have expected this to happen. But it is certainly a threat to free, independent
and responsible media, social or otherwise. When I addressed the Lakeside Media Expo 2018,
I pointed out that the role of a free and independent media, faced by this
supercilious irresponsibility in social media, is to eschew dogma as well as
tyranny of any kind. Instead, the responsible media must seek the truth at all
times by "informing the misinformed and guiding the misguided”. The
responsible media cannot afford to be populist. This statement needs also to be
extended to commentators, columnists and OpEds contributors. To be frank, fair
and fearless requires that one is thoroughly informed of the subject matter one
is writing on, commenting on, or "opining" on. Remember Mao's dictum:
No investigation, no right to speak." In his columns in a sister paper,
the veteran journalist, Phillip Ochieng', has remained fearlessly faithful to
Chairman Mao. The trouble, however, is that few in the
younger generation, who join the world of journalism, or take to the easy road
of social media, can ever take the time to read and investigate, especially on
social relations and social dynamics, which is covered not simply in  social sciences, but also in literature and
theology. The reading of the classics is easily revealed in Ochieng's writings
whatever subject matter he handles. Which simply means that it does help to be
properly educated before one picks up the pen or goes before an electrical
contraption to comment on anything serious in society. And education does not
mean the acquisition of degrees but the ability to learn by opening up one's
mind to useful ideas on which many societies and institutions have been built
to date. One of the most prolific speakers and writers
Kenya has known was Thomas Joseph Mboya. Except for a brief period of time he
spent as a trade unionist at Ruskin College in Oxford, Tom never went to any
university. But he was well read and well researched, and you could not try him
in an argument without finding out that he was either at par with you or left
you behind somewhere. Which simply means that if you, as a journalist, want to
report something on Laikipia, for example, take some time to do some
investigation about that county so that what you write about is not a stand
alone piece of information, which could be true of any county since
"context matters." A lot of hogwash I read in social media quite
often have little regard to context. The writers sometimes write as if they are
the alpha and omega of "the truth". This is called dogma at best or
tyranny at worst. 