Former REA chief executive Ng’ang’a Munyu has dismissed corruption allegation levelled against him days after he was appointed the Central Kenya Economic Bloc secretariat CEO. Munyu is being investigated by the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission (EACC) for manipulation of tenders, misleading the Rural Electrification Authority board, and procuring faulty tenders that could have cost sh amid allegation of Sh6 billion. The allegations were that there were massive irregularities in the procurement of solar Photo Voltaic PV systems for primary schools from 2013 to 2017, leading to loss of public funds amounting Sh6.6 billion. Munyu who is also the Tharaka Nithi county economic advisor dismissed the corruption allegation during a press conference held today in a city hotel. Read: Ex-CEO manipulated tenders for rural electrification — audit He said that he knows the person sponsoring the negative publicity. “Why is the internal audit report being circulated to the media now yet it was prepared about one and a half years ago, around April – May 2017?” “Why wasn’t I called by the board to respond to issues contained in the audit report if I was found culpable? Why was I cleared in October 2017, paid my dues up to the end of my contract in May 2018 and issued with a certificate of service if the board had an issue with me?” he asked. Governors from Embu, Kiambu, Kirinyaga, Laikipia, Meru, Murang’a, Nakuru, Nyandarua, Nyeri and Tharaka Nithi appointed him as the head of the secretariat on October 5. According to the governors, the secretariat he will be tasked with enhancing economic development in the region through implementation of regional initiatives. The governors said his role will be to oversee implementation of regional policies, projects and programmes. The formation of the Central regional economic bloc secretariat comes a year after several other counties including those of Western Kenya and Nyanza formed the Lake region economic bloc. The anti-graft agency cited irregularities in the procurement of solar panels for primary schools from 2013 to 2017, leading to loss of public funds amounting Sh6.6 billion. The report was submitted to the Energy Cabinet Secretary Charles Keter. Read: REA’s Sh6.4 billion electricity project for rural areas to kick off this month Munyu has experience in public servant with 30 years’ experience. In 1981 he joined the Ministry of Energy as a junior planning officer. He is a graduate of the University of Nairobi with a Bachelor of Science degree in Mathematics and Statistics, 1st class honours. He has a Master’s degree in Energy Management and Policy obtained in 1983 from the prestigious Ivy League member, University of Pennsylvania (USA). He rose through the ranks to the position of Deputy Chief Economist in the Ministry of Energy. In September 2007, Munyu joined the then newly created Rural Electrification Authority (REA) as Chief Manager, Corporate Planning till February 2009 when he was appointed as General Manager, Corporate Planning & Performance Monitoring. Click here for the latest political news 