President Donald Trump said on
Monday he wants the FBI to conduct a comprehensive and quick
investigation into sexual misconduct allegations against his
US Supreme Court nominee Brett Kavanaugh, but said he did not
want to see a "witch hunt." Trump, speaking three days after he ordered the
investigation, said the FBI probe would be guided by what Senate
Republicans want examined. Trump ordered the FBI to carry out an
investigation, lasting up to a week, of the allegations against
Kavanaugh after Senate Republican leaders were pressed by
moderate senators in Trump's own party. "I want them to do a very comprehensive investigation.
Whatever that means, according to the senators and the
Republicans and the Republican majority, I want them to do
that," Trump said at a White House news conference. "With that being said, I'd like it to go quickly." Trump expressed sympathy and support for his nominee, a
conservative federal appeals court judge whose confirmation
prospects in the Senate looked smooth until the sexual
misconduct allegations surfaced last month. Christine Blasey Ford, a university professor from
California, testified before the Senate Judiciary Committee last
Thursday that Kavanaugh sexually assaulted her in 1982 when they
were both high school students in Maryland. Kavanaugh denied her
allegation, as well as accusations made by two other women, and
accused Democrats of making him the victim of a political "hit." "I think the FBI should do what they have to do to get to
the answer," Trump told reporters at the White House. "I think the FBI should interview anybody that they want,
within reason," Trump added, including all three accusers as
well as Kavanaugh himself. "We don't want to go on a witch hunt, do we?" Trump asked,
mentioning a term he has used in the past to denigrate Special
Counsel Robert Mueller's investigation of Russia's role in the
2016 US presidential election. Trump said the parameters of the investigation would be up
to the Republican-led Senate. "I'm guided by the Senate. I want to make the Senate happy,
because ultimately they're making the judgment," Trump said. Questions about the scope of the FBI investigation emerged
over the weekend amid reports that Senate Republicans were
working with the White House to contain the number of witnesses
and the allegations to be investigated. A White House official, speaking on condition of anonymity,
told Reuters on Sunday the investigation would start off with
interviews with only four people. Democrats expressed concern about any curtailment of the
probe, which comes after the Judiciary Committee approved
Kavanaugh's nomination along party lines on Friday before the
matter goes to the full Senate for a final vote. "It has to be well beyond the initial very narrow scope of
four witnesses, four individuals being interviewed," Democratic
Senator Chris Coons, who sits on the Judiciary Committee, said
on Monday. Trump on Monday called Kavanaugh a good man who has been
treated unfairly. Trump also said he believes Kavanaugh did not
lie during his testimony to the Judiciary Committee about the
extent of his drinking in high school and college. On the other hand, Trump said, if the FBI uncovers
something, "I'll take that into consideration. I have a very
open mind." Trump did not elaborate. Supreme Court nominations require Senate confirmation.
Trump's fellow Republicans control the Senate by a narrow 51-49
margin. That means that if all the Democrats vote against
Kavanaugh, Trump could not afford to have more than one
Republican senator oppose his nominee, with Vice President Mike
Pence casting a tie-breaking vote in the Senate. Senator Jeff Flake, backed by fellow moderate Republicans
Susan Collins and Lisa Murkowski, asked for the FBI
investigation. Democrats previously had demanded an FBI probe,
but Trump and other Republicans had opposed the move. 