ODM has summoned Homa Bay MCAs to Orange House, Nairobi, on Monday to settle persistent leadership wrangles. The county assembly has been split right down the middle between factions supporting Majority leader Richard Ogindo and Kanyadoto MCA Water Dada. Each has 29 MCAs behind them. Ogindo was purportedly removed during a special session on September 6 presided over by deputy speaker Evans Marieba and replaced with Dada. But speaker Elizabeth Ayoo said the meeting by MCAs allied to Dada was illegal, null and void. She said it was not approved by the speaker under the Standing Orders. “We cannot have a section of the assembly running the assembly as per their own kangaroo rules and regulations,” Ayoo ruled. She said the status quo as advised by ODM remains. “The party executive director Oduor Ong’wen wrote a letter advising that they were still consulting and any elections is halted until they give further advised,” Ayoo said. The MCAs defied the party and went ahead to hold an election and served the outcome to the speaker. This prompted ODM to again write to the speaker and members advising that the party’s regulations were violated. The party said it does not recognise the September 6 election. Defiant lot Ayoo recently asked the party to quickly address the leadership stalemate. “In the spirit of consultation, arbitration and mediation I am urging the party to call all ODM members and have a seating with them so as to give me a clear direction,” the speaker said. Ayoo said there is no clear majority leader as both opponents are supported by 29 members each. “As per that, no one has been elected apart from the first election in September 2017,” she said. “As per our Standing Orders, there has to be a majority. Based on this equal division we do not have a clear majority supporting either side.” Ayoo also said the position of deputy speaker does not exist in law as declared by the High Court. She urged residents to wait for the party’s direction. Ogindo has said he is still in office as the party nullified his purported removal. Besides Ogindo, the MCAs also elected a new deputy Majority leader and Majority whip. ODM secretary general Edwin Sifuna rebuked the MCAs for defying the party’s directive and electing new officials. “Your actions showed gross misconduct according to the constitution of ODM. You are hereby given notice to show cause in writing within seven days as to why disciplinary action should not be taken against you,” he said in a letter.