I hope the debate on the review of the Constitution is not going to become
cacophonous. I hope we are not just about to see
proposals for the amendment of the Constitution becoming a fad in Parliament.
What we have before us as the 2010 Constitution was the product of many years
of struggle, with the Kenyan society going through a part of its history that
was not always pleasant faced by authoritarian regimes, which would hear
nothing about reforms. It was in fact considered as treason any proposal that
assumed that the one-party state would have to change to give an opportunity
for democratic governance. Hence the wordings of the present Constitution were
carefully chosen to safeguard all Kenyans from any form of tyranny and dogma in
the future, making the Kenyan citizen sovereign in designing the affairs of
state and protecting his or her fundamental rights. We must, therefore, avoid
both dogma and tyranny in debating current reforms in the Constitution. There is, therefore, nothing more sacred by providing the Kenyan citizens the
opportunity to vote, through a referendum, when proposals made to change the
institution touch on the bill of rights, the structure of the state and
sovereign power among other elements that constitute the foundations of our
hard earned freedoms. So cost cannot be an issue, nor should time spent on such
debates be considered "a waste of time" as some would aver. 
From issues already raised, there does seem to be major concerns converging on
the following. First, the structure of the national government. This can be
framed in the form of a question. Should Kenya continue to have a presidential
system of government that concentrates executive power in the hands of one
person, or should we have a parliamentary system that makes the Prime Minister
the team leader in the exercise of executive power by the Cabinet, political
parties and Parliament like in the UK? The current debate on Brexit
demonstrates this very well. Prime Minister Theresa May, has to negotiate, not
only within her party to find a working formula for Brexit, but she also has to
go a long way to convince her Cabinet, as well as Parliament, of the viability
of her own proposals. In our case, quite often, it does not
really matter what MPs think: They can easily be herded into one basket and
then delivered to the President. And if that is considered risky, other more
arm-twisting measures, unorthodox as they may be, are usually available to make
the presidency have its way. Kenya's history with political repression,
presidential intolerance and authoritarian rule has not been substantially done
away with under the present Constitution, hence the continued search for a
parliamentary system. 
The second issue that has been raised regards the two systems of government,
"separate but interdependent", national government and devolved
government. Kenyans have, by and large, embraced devolution. The debate raised
now focuses on the viability of having 47 counties performing functions as
stipulated in Schedule Four of the Constitution. It is interesting that the issue of the
number of counties takes us right back to the Bomas of Kenya debates: Nothing
is new here. Were you to ask me, I think the size and numbers of counties is
not really an issue. The issue is, are they "productively
governable"? The Netherlands is almost the size of Kisumu
County, but it is one of the richest nations on earth, and a leading exporter
of dairy products. Netherlands is productively governed: It is a national,
democratic and developed state. The three issues of nationhood, democracy and
development will not be resolved in Kenya, at the county or national level,
simply by fiddling with the number of counties. Those who want to claw back the
functions of counties seem to be by nature "centrists": Their
arguments were viable in 1963-64 and not today, after
the experience with both the CDF and devolution, which show both devolved power
and resources give ordinary Kenyans more opportunity to "experience
development." The third issue that seems to have emerged is whether we should have a
bicameral or a unicameral legislature. Kenyans will recall that at Independence,
we had a bicameral legislature with devolution, which was not as robust as the
one we have now. The "nationalist coalition" that revolved around the
Kenyatta-Odinga-Mboya axis was determined to do away with the Senate and
devolution as soon after Independence as possible. They succeeded in their
designs to create a presidential one-party state, which ended up consuming the
very nationalist coalition from which it arose! The story is still too fresh in
some of our minds to allow the latter day centrists in Parliament to roll the
clock back in history. If there is any proposal that needs to be very
critically examined as having the potential to recreate pure bred authoritarian
system it is this one. Kenya needs a bicameral legislature, with a strengthened Senate playing its
role as the guardian of national unity and the "safe keeper" of the
diversity of the Kenyan people governed by devolution. In this regard, the Senate
should have the last word in vetting appointments to public office to ensure the
mosaic of the Kenyan nation is preserved as national unity is guaranteed.
Further, since senators truly represent counties, debates that affect counties
should arrive at the Senate as their last port of call. When all is said and
done, the Senate should judiciously act as a political court of appeal before
any constitutional issue is referred to the courts for arbitration. Finally, it has now been proven that the systems of government t envisaged in our
very progressive Constitution do not seem to be working smoothly because they
are very easily undermined or subverted by the individuals who wield power
within them. The phenomenon is called "impunity." It is impunity that nurtures such other
evils like corruption. Of late, some dragons of impunity and corruption have
been slain because the President decided to act tough. What is the moral of
this story? It is that as long as the President — ie one person — is permissive
of, or participant in, impunity and corruption, the two things will continue to
plague the nation. But are we forever condemned to have our fortunes as a
nation in the hands of only one person? This is where I find the presidential
system fraught with too many dangers and pitfalls in a country such as ours ,which
is in a hurry to rapidly grow as a national democratic and developmental state.
The presidential system is once more too risky to ensure this path of growth.