Deputy president William Ruto is causing tension and confusion with his nationwide campaigns, Likoni MP Mishi Mboko has said. Her reference was in reaction to Ruto's claim that Opposition leader Raila Odinga was planning to kick him out of the Jubilee Party, “just as he did in ODM”. But Ruto left ODM to form United Republican Party that teamed with The National Alliance to have Jubilee Party of Kenya, latter morphed to JP. On Sunday, Ruto called Raila a "conman" while in Mombasa. The DP is also on record claiming his wealth was genuinely amassed. The latest outburst by Kenya's second most powerful man that Raila was scheming against him has attracted fury from the former Prime Minister loyalists, including Mboko. The law-marker said Ruto is busy plotting the country's division with his divisive politics. “Like-minded leaders like President Uhuru Kenyatta are not politicking but giving back to their electorates through Agenda Four. Their focus is to unite this country,” she said. Mboko said the March 9, Handshake which Ruto is cagey about, has brought calmness. She spoke on Wednesday at the Likoni School for Blind when she gave out a Sh7 million bus. Mboko said Ruto was racing against himself at the Coast and cannot claim an early win. She said ODM rebels trooping the DP's rallies will “loose big time” in 2022. “We saw what happened to [former Kwale woman representative Zainab] Chidzuga and [ex-Kilifi South MP] Mustapha Iddi,” she said. The former ODM members lost their respective seats after supporting Jubilee in the last general election. This time, Mohamed Ali (Nyali, Independent), Ali Mbogo (Kisauni, Wiper) and Badi Twalib (Jomvu, ODM) are Mombasa politicians supporting the DP. In Kilifi, Aisha Jumwa (Malindi, ODM), Owen Baya (Kilifi North, ODM) and Paul Katana (Kaloleni, ODM) have announced their support for Ruto. In Kwale, Khatib Mwashetani (Lunga Lunga, JP), Suleiman Dori (Msambweni, ODM), Kassim Tandaza (Matuga, ANC) and Benjamin Tayari (Kinango, ODM) back Ruto's bid. Voi MP Jons Mlolwa (ODM) remains the only lawmaker in Taita Taveta county to announce his intention to support the DP. Lamu East MP Athman Sharif (JP) has said Ruto is his choice in 2022 polls.