Combat appears to be in the offing at the Embu county assembly after Jubilee Party reinstated the Majority chief whip who had been removed last month by her colleagues. The party dispute resolution committee returned Margaret Kariuki to her position after she appealed her September 13 removal. The assembly members are against the decision. The MCAs had accused her of causing divisions and animosity between them and their counterparts from other parties. They also accused her of instigating the removal of the first deputy speaker Steve Munene in April this year. The MCAs have reelected Munene. Yesterday, the MCAs maintained that they will not recognise Kariuki as their leader. They had elected Morris Collo in an acting capacity. The party had, however, said that the MCAs’ decision was unprocedural and done without due or proper consultation. In a letter signed by secretary general Raphael Tuju and dated October 2, the party says neither its national headquarters nor county officials were consulted before Kariuki was removed. Tuju said this violated the party constitution. The purported removal was shambolic and mired in chaos, and did not reflect the image of the party as provided for in its code of conduct, he said. He said the removal lacked decorum and honour — a requirement during party meetings or assembly sittings. “Margaret Kariuki remains the Majority chief whip as provided for by the constitution,” the letter reads.The committee’s recommendations have yet to be enforced as the assembly has denied receiving a letter. Speaker Josiah Thiriku said he had not seen the letter and added that Collo is still the acting Majority chief whip. Collo said their decision still stands, as they have not received any letter. Any communication regarding the issue should be addressed to the speaker, he said. Ruguru Ngandori MCA Harrison Muturi warned that they will not allow Kariuki to take back the seat. Kariuki yesterday said the party took a decision after hearing from all those who raised issue against her appeal. The speaker, Majority leader Maicheal Njeru and deputy chief whip Collo were summoned to the Jubilee headquarters. Kariuki wants the speaker to communicate with the office to get and implement the resolution, instead of waiting for a letter to be sent to his office.  