Embu leaders have backed calls for a referendum on amending the Constitution but want presidential powers greatly increased. They also want management of the counties improved and their “heavy spending” curtailed. The leaders include Senator Njeru Ndwiga, management consultant Kithinji Kiragu, Manyatta MP John Muchiri and his Mbeere South counterpart Geoffrey Kingangi. Some referendum supporters want the president’s powers greatly reduced under a parliamentry system with a strong prime minsiter. The Embu leaders said the focus in a constitutional review should be on reducing spending and making public institutions more efficient. Muchiri said the current Constitution has eroded the powers of the presidency so much that it is unable to run the country effectively. The president is usually at the mercy of the Judiciary and other independent organs, he said. Muchiri wants the office strengthened so the President has control. Kingangi called for strict checks on the county governments to end misuse of funds. He said some counties start nonviable development projects such as flower farming so they get an avenue for ‘eating’ funds, instead of prioritising programmes that help residents. Ndwiga said the cost of living is unbearable and the national revenue mainly goes to salaries and recurrent expenditure. Some services have been duplicated to the burden of the taxpayer, he said. “Kenya has become a consuming country and doesn’t produce as much as it should. It’s almost going bankrupt,” Ndwiga said. A review of the Constitution should be focus on development and prosperity, he said, not on creating political seats for jobless leaders. Kiragu said the framers of the Constitution focussed on legal and political ideals at the expense of principles of public service that would improve lives. People were very concerned about human rights and paid little attention to government efficiency and services, he said. Kiragu said some state agencies are only active for 20 days in a whole year, but are allocated huge budgets. The lawmaker also opposed proposals — notably by ODM leader Raila Odinga — to create another layer of devolved units, saying they would be too costly and counterproductive. Creating a few regional governments to fast-track development is not sustainable and has not been supported by research. Kiragu said the 47 counties only need strong institutions to improve services. He wants nominations of individuals to Parliament and the county assemblies stopped. The positions are dished out by the political elite based on friendship and loyalty and do not ensure effective representation, he said.