Gilgil MP Martha Wangari has blamed rising crime on police laxity and called on Cabinet secretary Fred Matiang’i and Police IG Joseph Boinett (pictured left) to crack the whip. In a statement, she said the deteriorating situation in her constituency has recently caused five killings in Gilgil by unknown people. Wangari said the number of people who have died from attacks is overwhelming and police are doing little to curb the situation. “The trend that we have witnessed is completely unacceptable. People are being killed and those responsible for protecting Kenyans appear to be in slumber. The Director of Criminal Investigations, Matiang’i and Boinnet should now intervene,” she said. The legislator called on security officers to increase night patrols, saying rising crime was scaring away investors.She said businesses now close early. “These incidents have followed the same pattern and we are concerned that it is not portraying good prospects for businesses Gilgil,” she said. Read: Rising cases of murder blamed on moral decay Last month, a miraa trader who operating a shop in Gilgil town was killed. There have been no arrests. The spate of killings has included three women murdered in less than a week. One woman’s naked body was dumped at Kambi Maasai, along the Gilgil-Nakuru highway. “These incidents are on the rise and as a constituency we are worried. I am not happy with the state of insecurity in Gilgil town, especially where women are concerned and we want security agencies to take this matter seriously.” She added, “The officers who have been put in charge of the security in Gilgil subcounty should do their work responsibly and serve the public.” She called on residents to work closely with police and provide leads on the criminals terrorising them. Crime has also been rising in the larger Nakuru county. Most of the crime relates to robbers attacking motorists and residents in their homes. More: Heinous: Woman, three children strangled to death in Marurui  Click here for the latest political news