The Nobel Prize winning physicist, Albert Einstein, said: “Imagination is everything. It is the preview of life’s coming attractions.” It’s true. The future is locked in your imagination. Some people have figured out how to engage the power of imagination to create success while others are victims of their imagination. This principle tells you that, ultimately, you get what you see. In my perspective, the mind is the scariest part of a person. The capacity of the mind is frightening. It produces consistent results based on our imagination or thinking. The pictures we consistently retain in our minds eventually become our reality. If this principle is true, then it means you can use your imagination strategically. You can engage your imagination on purpose. You can design and create a desired future with your imagination. So, what kind of future will you create? Is your imagination working for or against you? Your mind has the capacity to see vivid, compelling pictures of your future. Based on the image that you see your mind can locate the resources necessary to make the picture happen. Furthermore, the power of visualization is such that your mind can help you see resources that you were previously blind to and attract to you the people, resources and opportunities required to achieve the image that you see. Your mind possesses the power of visualization. This means that you can create the future. Life does not have to happen to you. Through your imagination, you can regain your power. You can see a new exciting picture of tomorrow and get it. Now, when you begin to imagine a new reality or brighter future, you begin to experience a conflict between the exciting pictures in your imagination and where you are currently. And this is where people give up because they start feeling stupid for seeing a better future. If not handled properly, this conflict can stop you in your tracks. Also, it is reinforced when you mention your picture or dream to some people around you and they think you’re crazy. This is when you begin to wonder: how can this dream ever happen? Don’t be moved by this conflict. The awesome picture that you see is real and it can happen. But, you must fight to keep the image that you visualize. It’s worth fighting for because your future depends on it. Take the steps that you see in your mind, don’t give up and your dream will happen. You’ll see. Email: smpamugo@gmail.com   