One day, a camel and her calf were chatting and the calf asked why they had humps, rounded hooves and long eyelashes. The mother replied saying the humps are for storing water so that they can survive in the desert. She added that the rounded hooves help them move around in the sand while the eyelashes protect their eyes from the desert dust and sand. The calf thought for a while and said, “So we have humps to store water, rounded hooves to keep us comfortable when we walk in the desert sand and long eyelashes to protect us from sand and dust. Then what are we doing in a zoo?” Many times, we forget to put our strengths, skills, and knowledge in the right place, thus missing out on their benefits. This is true for individuals as well as institutions, such as a country. Last week, a visibly angry President Uhuru Kenyatta tossed aside his speech and made a declaration that pleased many small business owners. The President apologised to the small business owners after listening to their challenges keenly. It was clear that many technocrats in government have let down the President in his agenda to ensure growth in all sectors of the economy. It was clear that in the 2017 Jubilee Manifesto, the President set out to create and fully implement robust small- and medium enterprises (SMEs) development and support programme. This was with the aim of formalising the large number of informal businesses and supporting their growth from micro to small to medium enterprises, and eventually into large firms. This would catalyse the creation of jobs and contribute to tax revenues. Across the globe, SMEs are breathing life into the economies of developing and emerging countries. In other words, SMEs are the backbone of an economy such as ours and must be supported at all costs for the economy to thrive. It’s unfortunate, as we learnt last week, that businesses in Gikomba have not received any support, despite the fact that the industry employs millions in Nairobi and beyond. The traders in Gikomba rely on supplies from across the country for their businesses to thrive. Why are we importing fish and other commodities from China that are and can be produced in Kenya? Why are we still importing shoes, plastic material, toothpicks and pegs and yet we have small industries that have produced them locally for years? We must focus on product development, access to markets, access to affordable finance and raw materials supply and management. To further enhance growth of SMEs, we should also focus on quality standards and certification, access to technology and product innovation and patenting. Between 2013 and 2017, the Jubilee government completed 822 housing units in Soweto Zone A of Kibera with 245 market stalls to serve the settlement and give opportunities to small businesses. During Uhuru’s first term, the government set out to build the Kenya Leather Park in Machakos for more than 7,000 small and medium enterprises. These too must be accelerated if we are to create jobs and grow the economy. It is now time to move a step further and establish the Biashara Bank by merging the Micro and Small Enterprise Authority, the Youth Enterprise Development Fund, the Women’s Enterprise Fund and the Uwezo Fund as outlined in the 2017 Jubilee Manifesto. This will help in providing coordination in the delivery of affordable financing and support for business development. We must also put in efforts aimed at increasing earnings and expanding employment opportunities ,not just within the industries but all the way down to communities, small businesses and individuals. If we want to continue growing the economy, there must be special focus on SMEs’ growth and sustainability. This is an engine that needs to be taken care of and when SMEs next meet the President, we must hear more positive things. Political and communications consultant. @MachelWaikenda    