Knut has warned of unspecified action if the TSC fails to convene a meeting in the next seven days to discuss unresolved issues affecting teachers. This followed the Teachers Service Commission’s decision on Thursday to call off the meeting that had been scheduled for Friday. Kenya National Union of Teachers (Knut) Secretary General Wilson Sossion expressed disappointment with Teachers Service Commission (TSC), saying its reflective of the commission’s disinterest in resolving pending issues. “We read mischief and mistrust on your part,” Sossion said in a letter addressed to TSC Chief Executive Officer Nancy Macharia. He pointed out that the union is keen on protecting the rights of its members in line with the as Constitution and relevant labour laws. “In the circumstance, we hereby demand that within the next seven days a meeting be convened failure to which steps and actions will be taken without any reference to you,” Sossion warned. A five-day retreat in Naivasha that was meant to address the issues raised by Knut ended prematurely on October 3 after the TSC turned down demands by Knut to revoke the transfer of 85 teachers, who are union officials. Read: Knut and TSC meet to stop strike before national exam More: TSC evading talks on promotions – Knut Macharia said the only agenda of the meeting was on teacher promotion, appraisals and career progression. Knut issued a statement accusing the commission of using diversionary tactics to evade discussions on teacher promotions. Macharia responded and said teacher transfers are mandatory to all TSC employees. She said the commission had already agreed to release all the 111 teachers who are Knut executive secretaries to work full time for the union. Knut said teachers, who are union officials, must be retained in their areas of representation and accused the TSC of acting in bad faith by transferring the 85 union officials. The latest standoff between Knut and TSC is causing jitters with the national exams exactly two weeks away. If the commission chooses to ignore Sossion’s ultimatum, the union boss may call a teachers' strike. The Knut boss has been postponing the strike plan since July to give dialogue a chance. Should Knut go ahead, there will be a big challenge in administering the KCPE and KCSE examinations. The Kenya National Examination Council depends on teachers to oversee the exams. Some 1.06 million candidates will write the Kenya Certificate of Primary Education from on October 30 to November 1. The tests will be preceded by rehearsals on October 29. The Kenya Certificate of Secondary Education (KCSE) will be done by 663,820 candidates between November 2 and 28. Read: Strike on if TSC bulldozes, ignores teachers' demands, Sossion warns See also: Teachers’ strike still on, issues persist — Sossion Click here for the latest political news