The revamped legal, policy and institutional framework over the last few years, has enhanced the fight against corruption and unethical conduct in the country. The arrests and prosecutions of persons — senior government officials, businesspersons, and ordinary Kenyans alike — that have in the recent past led to hefty fines amounting to millions of shillings and mandatory jail terms has sent a strong message that being corrupt has dire consequences. The cooperation being implemented in the criminal justice system aims to achieve a 100 per cent conviction rate in the future. It is an arduous task that requires all of us to work towards it. The EACC and the DPP work together to reduce the cycle time in investigation of cases and prosecution thereof. This cordial working relationship would result in many corruption suspects brought to book in record time. Since 2013, the Commission completed 130 cases in courts leading to 67 convictions, 36 acquittals and 27 withdrawals. In particular, the 2017-18 financial year recorded 49 completed cases, resulting in 39 convictions and 10 acquittals. The convicted officials are senior public officials both in national and county governments. To our satisfaction, the anti-corruption war is getting better and bigger. The commission has strengthened asset recovery mechanisms, which have provided positive results. For example, the EACC recovered the former mayor’s house in Lavington, over 18 houses in Woodley Estate, the Grand Regency Hotel, Taifa Park in Kisumu, Uhuru Gardens in Mombasa, Karatina police land, Judiciary in Nairobi and Mombasa, Nyali beach access road and Pirates public beach, among others. In addition, there are 352 assets recovery cases in various courts in the country worth over Sh10.2 billion. The commission is certain it will recover all and revert to the government.  One of the key strategies the EACC has implemented is disruption of corruption networks to prevent graft before it occurs. In view of this, the commission has saved the government Sh20.7 billion over the last five years. This strategy has the benefit of curbing corruption before it happens, which is more cost effective. It’s worth noting that the anti-graft agency is also implementing the Leadership and Integrity Act, 2012 (LIA), whose aim is to promote ethical standards in the public service. It provides for the following: Limitations on the types, maximum value, storage and disposal and collection of gifts a state or public officer can receive and the procedure for the opening, maintaining and publicising of registers of conflict of interest; grounds and conditions for opening, registering, maintaining, controlling and closing bank accounts outside Kenya; lodging of complaints, investigation and disciplinary processes and mechanisms on the enforcement; development and commitment by state officers to specific leadership and integrity codes. To this effect, 2,725 state officers have signed specific leadership and integrity codes and responsible Commissions are implementing the requirements of the regulations. These include Cabinet secretaries, Permanent secretaries, governors and their deputies, MCAs and county executives. Nine state officers have been charged with violation of LIA 2012. One state officer has been convicted of the charge and three petitions against state officers have been lodged in court with the aim of removing them from office. The measures the commission has taken to prevent graft include systems reviews, advisory services, promotion of standards and best practices, establishing and maintaining strategic partnerships and coalitions, public education and awareness creation. Combating corruption and unethical conduct requires continuous flow of information to the public, which in turn guides policy efforts in preventing corruption. This information is multifaceted and diverse. The commission’s National Ethics and Corruption Survey done last year indicates awareness level of the Commission has increased to 55.8 per cent, up from 41.2 per cent in 2015. Although this is impressive, about 40 per cent of Kenyans may still not be aware of the agency’s presence. We will strive to use every available means to reach every Kenyan. In the last five years, the commission has increased its presence from three to 10 regional offices to bring its services closer to the people. Further, the commission is in the process of opening three additional regional offices. It’s my sincere hope the public will use this opportunity to report all corruption and unethical conduct cases. The EACC has opened all fronts to combat corruption and unethical conduct and believes that the dragon of corruption will be slayed.   Waqo,is Secretary/CEO, Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission hwaqo@integrity.go.ke  