Embu MCAs have removed assembly deputy speaker Paul Muchangi barely six months after he took the oath of office. Muchangi succeeded Steve Munene, who was also purged. This came barely three weeks after majority whip Margaret Kariuki was deposed for allegedly pitting Jubilee MCAs against their counterparts from other parties. On April 11, they removed Munene for what they described as “pride, aloofness, laziness and undercutting us”. On Wednesday, the MCAs axed Muchangi, with some saying he was incompetent and others saying he was not a Jubilee member, hence, did not deserved to get the post. The sitting ended at around 8.30pm. Muchangi was elected on the ticket of Narc-Kenya — a Jubilee affiliate. Jubilee MCAs said it was a major blunder to have a non-member as their deputy speaker. The assembly reelected Munene. The motion was tabled by Ruguru-Ngandori’s Harrison Muturi. He said they said they were out to correct a mistake they made in April when they axed Munene. Mwea’s Harrison Mwaruko said they were rebuked in Nairobi during a party meeting for violating the party’s constitution. “We want to correct the mistake we made some months ago so the party can take back the seat reserved for it. Muchangi has done a good job but has to let go of the seat,” he said. Majority leader Michael Njeru said they had no personal vendetta against Muchangi, but the position had to go to Jubilee — the party with the majority of members. Having Muchangi in the seat “is awkward so he has to go”, he said. Muchangi put up a spirited defence of his work, but all 32 MCAs, including those from other parties, voted against him. The MCAs warned Munene to correct his past mistakes and toe the line. They demanded that he gives unconditional support to Governor Martin Wambora whom they called the Jubilee Party county leader. The representatives also told Munene to stop attacking his colleagues on social media, radio and television over issues being debated in the assembly. He was also cautioned not to visit his colleagues’ wards and undermine them. He promised to comply.