A judge wants the family of former influential MP to amicably resolve a dispute over sharing of family wealth valued at more than Sh2 billion. Thirty-four children of the late William Murgor, who served as Kerio Central MP during the kanu regime, are in court over his vast estate. The estate includes large tracts of agricultural land and commercial plots in Uasin Gishu and Elgeyo Marakwet. Murgor died on September 28, 2006, leaving behind five widows, one of whom is deceased, and 34 children. Keiyo North MP James Murgor is the eldest son and head of the family. One of the daughters, Enid Cheptanui, has moved to the High Court in Eldoret and sued the MP, his brother Francis and sister Chemutai over alleged mismanagement, biased administration and sharing out of the estate. She filed the suit through lawyer Phillip Murgor. The matter is being heard by Justice Hellen Omondi. Cheptanui moved to court after the three swore an affidavit, seeking letters of administration to manage the estate. “The affidavit sworn by the three is fraudulent, defective and does not disclose material facts leading to a monumental dispute within the family between those who have been favoured and those who have been disadvantaged or completely left out in the proposed distribution of the estate,” lawyer Murgor says. Cheptanui is backed by 11 sisters and two brothers. Murgor says her client sought an out-of-court settlement, but the MP and two siblings refused to call an all-inclusive family meeting to resolve the dispute. In her affidavit, she says distribution of the estate violates the Law of Succession Act, is inequitable and unfairly favours children of one widow, Rosa Kimoi. She says the MP is massively favoured. “The proposed distribution has totally denied daughters of the deceased their fair and equitable or equal inheritance,” Cheptanui says. She also argues that the proposed distribution of the estate totally disinherits the surviving widows. “The proposed distribution also disregards Keiyo customary law in cases of polygamy, for equal or equitable distribution according to households, and imports redundant gender discriminative aspects of the same customary law that are illegal and repugnant to justice and morality,” Cheptanui says. Other widows listed in the court documents include Soti, Rosa Kimoi, Rosalina Terike, Anna Kimoi and Philomena Kimoi. Justice Omondi on Friday impressed upon Dr Murgor to initiate dialogue. “There is no point in you people tarnishing the good name of your father over matters you can discuss and sort out as a family,” said Justice Omondi. She asked Dr Murgor to play his role as head of the family. 