Mombasa residents and motorists yesterday grappled with flooded streets following heavy rains. The county administration has been making promises every time it floods, saying it would repair the drainage systems and demolish illegal structures on riparian land. But when the sun shines, all the promises are forgotten and nothing substantial is done. Another statement is issued when another flood hits. On Tuesday, the Meteorological Department warned residents of Kwale, Mombasa, Kilifi, Tana River and Lamu of possible flash floods in the next three days. The department said the counties will experience heavy rain, strong winds and waves. Residents are outraged with the county’s drainage system that has remained the same since 2013. The floods have damaged PSVs. Matatu Owners Association Coast coordinator Salim Mbarak said they spend more than Sh100,000 for full engine repair. He said stakeholders have for long engaged the county to improve the drainage system. Mbarak said some efforts have been made, but they are not enough. “Because of the situation, we have been advising drivers to be cautious whenever driving. We have advised them it is better they find an alternative route,” he said. Transport executive Twafiq Balala could not be reached for comment. County director of communication, Richard Chacha promised to get back but did not. In the 2018-19 budget, Sh277 million was allocated to roads infrastructure development. The county’s objective is stated as “to construct, improve and maintain county roads infrastructure”. The Hassan Joho-led administration has beautified the town by fitting Cabro and improving street lighting. In 2017, there were nine flood-related deaths in Mombasa. No death has been reported since Tuesday. Last year in May, the Mombasa government started demolishing illegal structures on waterways to prevent floods. Poor physical planning and the mushrooming of illegal structures have been blamed for the floods that rocked Mombasa after a two-day heavy downpour. Joho had said the demolitions would cut across the whole county. “This exercise is aimed at clearing unauthorised building works that are responsible for flooding,” Joho said. The Likoni Channel crossing was not spared by the flooding, leading to the withdrawal of two ferries and suspension of ferrying of motor vehicles. Kenya Ferry Services management and the Mombasa county commissioner’s office blamed the illegal construction of structures along the ocean that have altered the natural flow of seasonal rivers into the ocean.