Electoral commission chairman Wafula Chebukati and his team should shoulder the blame for the mess at the agency, three lawmakers said yesterday. “Chebukati should stop hiding behind [sacked CEO Ezra] Chiloba. Everybody should carry his cross. Everyone knows there is a rot in the commission," Ugunja MP Opiyo Wandayi said at Parliament Buildings. "What we want to see happening is investigative agencies swinging into action with an open mind and investigate everybody.” Chiloba was sacked on Friday after he was found culpable of committing procurement irregularities during the 2017 general election. Chebukati had twice suspended the CEO, citing procurement malpractices ahead of the August and October 2017 elections running into millions of shillings. On Tuesday he said Chiloba was against electoral reforms and had on various occasions opposed an internal audit to ascertain the cost of the elections. Read: Sacked Ezra Chiloba guilty of gross misconduct, breached State laws - Chebukati The chairman said he had written to the Director of Public Prosecutions and the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission to investigate claims of irregularities against Chiloba. But the lawmakers said Chebukati should stop hiding behind Chiloba and should also be investigated. “Within a month we should have people in court,” Wandayi said. Baringo North MP William Cheptumo said passing all the blame to the sacked CEO was unfair. “He [Chebukati] has become the player and referee at the same time. He was part of the commission and most of those decisions were made at the plenary,” he said. The CEO is responsible for the functioning of the organisation, while the commissioners set policy and make key decisions. Gem MP Elisha Odhiambo called for an overhaul of the entire commission and a new one reconstituted to oversee the upcoming boundaries review. The lawmakers said the four commissioners who resigned should be replaced urgently as the remaining three cannot be trusted with serious activities such as overseeing a referendum. Wandayi proposed that political parties nominate members to the commission, but Cheptumo called for national dialogue to determine its structure, composition and operations. Homa Bay Town MP Opondo Kaluma has sponsored a Bill that allows the minority and majority sides of Parliament to nominate two members each to a proposed five-member commission. See also: Chebukati defends Chiloba's suspension, says to pave way for probe Click here for the latest political news