The National Transport and Safety Authority yesterday condemned the removal of barriers along Mombasa road, warning it will lead to more pedestrian deaths. Director general Francis Meja said the authority had a deal with the previous administration to erect panels to deter pedestrians from crossing at undesignated points. “It’s very unfortunate that the Nairobi government has decided to remove the panels/barriers we set up along Mombasa Road. We agreed with the former administration to have them for safety measures to curb pedestrian deaths,” Meja told the Star. He said they had consulted Governor Evans Kidero and they agreed to do it at no cost. Yesterday, a press release by county director of communications Elkana Jacob said the county had defaced several illegal advertisement panels set up by the Kenya National Highways Authority along Mombasa Road. “The panels were set up under the guise of preventing pedestrians from crossing the highway, but were, in fact, leased out as advertising spaces without consent and statutory approvals from the county government,” the statement read. It accused Kenha of failing to secure permission for advertisements and structures it had mounted or permitted. But Kenha assistant director of corporate communication Charles Njogu dismissed the statement, saying the panels were set up by the NTSA. The transportation authority said they only offered a service to protect residents. “We even went ahead and put the waiver in writing and we can produce it as evidence,” Meja said. “The number of pedestrian fatalities on our roads is very alarming. By setting up the panels, we wanted to reduce the deaths and to encourage pedestrians to use footbridges.” According to NTSA, as of September 25, 853 pedestrians died countrywide since January. Another 766 died last year during a similar period. When the NTSA launched the Northern Corridor and Nairobi County Route Hazard Mapping Report in August, it revealed that Nairobi has the highest number of dangerous roads Of the 273 accident black spots countrywide, more than 70 or about a quarter are in the city. Some of the black spots include Haile Selassie-Railway roundabout, Riverside Drive junction, Landhies-Kamukunji roundabout on Landhies Road, the JKIA Airport turnoff, St Teresa junction in Eastleigh, Burma footbridge on Jogoo Road and Blue Post Bridge on Thika Super Highway. The NTSA reported that pedestrians ignore footbridges — some of which were built away from human traffic points. Meja said the barriers along Mombasa Road had reduced accidents and pedestrian deaths. The NTSA had recommended a multi-sector approach to reduce deaths, including monitoring of surface and maintenance of roads and signage. It wants enforcement and road agencies, county governments and road safety NGOs to join the efforts. Many pedestrians say footbridges are inconvenient and some are dangerous as criminals have taken them over.