Are
we about to mutilate a hard fought Constitution in the name of creation of an
office of the Prime Minister and a ceremonial President? Are we going for the
brick that the builder refused? We've been here before. With
such outrageous preposition, we're opening doors and ushering ourselves into
the South Sudan kind of crisis. This is so as it is not politically possible to
sustain two centres of power with our level of suspicion and the entrenched
tribal animosity that drives our way of life more so in the political arena. Just
imagine of a situation where the two political nemesis, Raila Odinga and William
Ruto occupy the two offices. The kind of ego wars and cold supremacy wars that
will be in our political discourse is beyond imagination. Their men and women
will be going for each other's throat. With this, we don't have to look any
further, the Kibaki-Raila 'Nusu Mkate' is enough to espouse this hypothesis. Ours
is a unique nation that requires not copy and paste solutions but rather develop
organic solutions to our special problems. A ceremonial president who is the
Commander-in-Chief might as well arrest the executive PM or organise his ethnic
group to rebel from the government with a disastrous ending. This matter will
bring to the fore the secession question, where those who stand with the President
will want to have their whole cake and disengage from the PM. The
idea that we can have an executive PM elected by Parliament is in itself
manifests fraud. Our Parliament is the cause of our problems, as a nation, and as
such, we can’t bestow on them the power to decide on our leader of the
Executive. They have failed to agree on a simple Sugar report and they couldn’t
protect us from the introduction of the 8 per cent VAT on petroleum products and
with such as record, we can’t allow them to decide our fate in the name of
electing our national leader. Parliament
has proved time without number that their price is slightly lower than a bottle
of Glenfiddich single malt, and allowing them to auction us to the highest
bidder is conmanship and a way of rewarding impunity. Let
the doctrine of universal suffrage of one man one vote reign supreme as it will
also allow us be responsible for our electoral decisions. Our Parliament, as is
it is, cannot attain electoral equity due to lack of proportionality: A constituency
of 140,000 voters will have equal voting power with a constituency of 37,000
voters. Where is equity in such electoral system? The
other point we must violently attack about the ceremonial president and
executive PM is the question of value. What value will the Kenyan populace
derive from this monster? Secondly what unique functions will a person in the
PM’s office perform that will miraculously transform us to a Singapore economy?
We can’t allow lifetime leader of Francis Atwoli’s ilk to determine how our
nation should be governed, trying to entertain the thought that Uhuru Kenyatta will
be too young to retire. Former US President Barack Obama retired younger than Uhuru
but we haven’t seen Democrats hobnobbing with the idea of creating a position
for him. Real leaders serve their constitutional terms and leave office in a
dignified manner, which allows the country to move on and try other people. We
can’t, therefore, allow the Atwoli to export Cotu’s way of doing things to the
national arena. 