Siaya MCAs have accused Governor Cornel Rasanga of failing to constitute his government as per the law. Central Alego MCA Leonard Oriaro said the governor breached the law by appointing nine acting chief officers. He said the governor single-handedly appointed nine chief officers six months into office without consulting the county public service board and the assembly. Oriaro said if the governor feels those acting are the best, he should forward their names to the assembly for vetting and approval. “The law is very clear that the appointment of the chief officers must be approved by the county assembly,” the MCA said. He said the chief officers being in office in an acting capacity is not only in bad faith but a breach of the law. “We expected Rasanga to present the names of chief officers in the assembly immediately after the executive members were sworn into office on May 31, but nothing has happened since then,” Oriaro said. The MCA said it’s no longer a secret that the PSB is not reading from the same script over the move by the executive to employ services of a private consultancy firm to recruit the chief officers. Nominated MCA Irene Shirley said a consultancy firm is alleged to have been irregularly procured to undertake the work. “This is pure wastage of public funds and a move aimed at recruiting unqualified officers being pushed by the executive,” she said. Yimbo East MCA Francis Otiato said the consultancy firm for recruitment of staff is not in the budget. County director of communications Jerry Ochieng said the interviews for the shortlisted applicants will be done before the end of this week. Ochieng said the county government is running smoothly as the acting chief officers are keen on service delivery. He defended the officers, saying the governor went for professionalism and integrity. “It is not a guarantee that all the acting chief officers were shortlisted, but they had a chance to apply for the positions that were advertised by the PSB,” Ochieng said. Contacted, PSB chairman Joe Donde did not respond. A source at the office, who spoke on condition of anonymity, however, said the matter is yet to be resolved. He said, “The executive sidestepped the board and involved the consultancy firm to conduct its work. Unless this is resolved, we are going to wait much longer to conduct interviews and vetting of the chief officers.”