Kabete police on night patrol have perfected the art of extortion, or so it seems. The officers begin their night patrols daily at 7pm. Uthiru residents complain that the officers are fond of arresting innocent people from the market and nearby shops as early as 8pm and demanding bribes. Residents want the IG to rein in and sack the officers whom are terrorising them instead of going for real criminals. Recently, they arrested several high school students who had been sent home for school fees and forced their parents to part with Sh500 each before they were released. When will the police truly change?  Corridors has learnt that a vocal nominated MP is living in constant fear of arrest as his dark past threatens to catch up with him. Those in the know say the EACC is investigating claims that the MP and another swindled Sh56 million from one of the political parties. Some of his friends were overheard saying at a popular Nairobi club that he is playing hide and seek with the investigators after his attempts to stop the inquiry into the loss of funds failed. It is said the man has been avoiding friends and does not stay in his house for fear of being arrested.  A deputy governor in Nyanza region is on the spot for failing to pay his bills in night clubs. The DG, a lover of fine Scotch whisky, is being accused of refusing to clear his accumulated debts in clubs. Recently, he got drunk to the point that his bodyguard had to drag him out of a posh club in the region. The DG who was in the company of a Majority leader in one of the county assemblies in the region, and who was also drunk, ‘turned’ into a waiter and started to serve revelers and his entourage with whisky. The Majority leader had to be driven to his house too. Not long ago, the DG and county secretary were involved in a gun drama at a popular joint in one of the hotels after youth arrived demanding money from them. Bar owners now want him to style up and pay their dues.   Still in the region, members of one of the four assemblies are now cursing their governor and speaker for not doing enough to enable them tour the world like their counterparts from the neighbouring county. Corridors heard two MCAs plotting how they will arm twist the county executive to agree to their travel plans. Recently, their attempt to impeach the speaker -who they accused of being a stumbling block – flopped.  