Kenyas labour market can survive disruption from technology for the next 10 to 20 years, a new study shows. The study by Pathways for prosperity commission released last week shows that robots will take time to be competitive in Africa due to low labour costs which remain attractive. “On a pure labour cost-basis... it may take a decade or two before robots become cost competitive on the African continent, given availability of cheap labour costs.” the study revealed. There are currently an estimated 1.4 million Kenyans who make up the country's labour force that are unemployed according to data from the Kenya National Bureau of Statistics. This shows availability of ready labour. While the cost of human labour is approximated at Sh300 on average by the report , the operation cost of a robot in Kenya is estimated at Sh2800 per hour. However, analysis from the study shows that the table will turn in a decades time when the cost of operating a robot will go down to Sh500 per hour while cost of human labour will increase to an estimated Sh1300 per hour. This is compared to the US where the cost of operating a robot is currently valued at Sh2300 versus Sh1600 paid as wages. Even so, a report on human capital released last week by the World Bank shows that Kenya’s human capital has declined from position 137 in 1990 to 139 out of 195 countries in 2016. In terms of years workers can expect to live, Kenya was ranked position 153 out of 195 as most of them live 38 of 45 years between the ages of 20 and 65 when they are most active. Technical expertise was the other reason why service automation and other technologies will delay for the next decade. According to the commissions co-chair Sri Indrawati, newer technology must be combined with the right mix of human capital and policy ecosystems to create comparative advantage. For instance, use of virtual reality for remote delivery of more complex services such as remote health care that require human qualities such as empathy. Twiga foods, a local mobile-based food supply platform is given as the best example of combined technology and human capital. The firm uses a network of collection centres across the country and a fleet of delivery vehicles to source produce and optimize the supply chain by accurately matching demand with supply, helping to reduce post-harvest losses and waste. While that is the case, the study has denied reports that accelerating automation will lead to the loss of atleast 75 per cent of currently available jobs. “Developing economies need to face and adapt to technological disruption,” she said... We urgently need to start new discussions, grounded in hard evidence to empower decision makers in developing countries to capitalize on new technologies and manage disruptions.” she said With this, the study has called on firms to reap the full potential of technology in order to take advantage of three billion people predicted to be offline still in 2023.