Kenyans have criticised Nyali MP Mohammed Ali's latest episode of the Jicho Pevu exposé. Part one of the new show talks about the death of former IEBC ICT manager Chris Msando while part two is on the August 2017 elections. Dubbed Dunia Gunia, Ali uploaded his production on YouTube on Friday last week after releasing its trailer on October 15. He had earlier met Human rights activist Boniface Mwangi and explained he needed public support. While many expected Ali's new show would shed some light into the current and past controversial issues in the country, a chunk of them expressed their dissatisfaction. Most of the Twitter commentators said the exposé has nothing new but things that every Kenyan speculates. "Watched it but nothing new in it. Just the speculations we have been having," @Agavament tweeted. "Just big words, pictures and good soundtracks," he added. "No wonder no stations wanted to air your dunia gunia. Nothing interesting or investigated. What is your intention of reminding our lowest moments as a country? Are you spreading hatred after handshake?," Sora Halake posed. Michael Murumba said he was disappointed that the show did not expose any cases of corruption in Parliament yet he is a member. Victor Hezekiah, on Youtube, said: "Nothing investigative here. Mere collection of reported information. Below the standard.ï»¿" Hewlet questioned why Ali was using a dark period in the country (election turmoil, violence and deaths) to "push a selfish and political agenda." "You were a serious investigator but it now appears you are using the fame of jicho pevu to propagate and to settle your personal scores with some ODM politicians," Hewlet said. Kenya Tours and Travel, however, acknowledged the MP's effort. "If you cant recognise his efforts or you watched or got this information from the news. Just know that Jicho pevu has always been more comprehensive than those local TV stations you watch," it said. "Keep up the good work and continue to name, shame and jail all corrupt and evil people in Kenya," Kenneth Charagu said. Click here for the latest political news