A House team yesterday criticised Education CS Amina Mohamed’s foreign travels at a time they said she should be focussing on national examinations. Chesumei MP Wilson Kogo said Amina “must wake up to the reality” that she no longer heads the Foreign Affairs ministry. Some 1,060,586 candidates will sit the KCPE exam from November 1, while another 664,586 will sit their KCSE exam from October 22. The National Assembly Education committee questioned the absence of the CS from the country. They want her to give the exams her undivided attention. Amina was to appear before the MPs to explain the situation of schools hit by clashes in Nakuru and Narok and how students would sit the exams. Tinderet MP Julius Melly chairs the committee. The CS was also to explain preparedness to handle the national exams at different centres countrywide in the face of emerging claims of cheating plots. The team learnt that the CS was on a three-week trip abroad and will only be available from October 19. It was the third time Amina failed to appear before the legislators. Mwingi North MP Paul Nzengu said the ministry’s operations are “shrouded in confusion”, citing implementation of the new curriculum as among the “grey issues” the CS should resolve. Malava lawmaker Moses Injendi urged Cabinet secretaries to understand their mandate. “How can people stay out of the country for three weeks when exams are around the corner?” he asked. PS Belio Kipsang was also out of Nairobi attending a World Food Programme event in Isiolo. The legislators expressed outrage at how top ministry officers delegated the crucial function of coordinating the examinations to junior officials. “We’re dismayed that both the Cabinet secretary and the principal secretary in the Education ministry and top officials did not attend this meeting despite being invited. We wanted to know how they are prepared to manage the upcoming examinations,” Melly said. “We’ve just been served with a letter from the ministry explaining that the CS is out of the country and the PS is in Isiolo for a World Food Programme event.” The committee will invite the CS when she returns before considering taking action against her.