President Uhuru Kenyatta has warned the National Cereals and Produce Board against misuse of public by paying unscrupulous traders at the advantage of maize farmers. "I am warning traders who have been benefiting from the sweat of farmers that as long as I am in charge, that will never happen again. I promise you and I swear that before God,  that you try that again. You will see what will happen to you," he said. He has said maize farmers, who are owed Sh1.4 billion and have been complaining over the delayed payout, have already started getting their dues from NCPB. Uhuru has also directed maize millers to reduce the price of 2kg pack of unga to Sh75. He has said there is a surplus of maize in the country. "This year,  the country will have a stock of 56 million bags against an annual consumption of 52 million bags." "This means there will a surplus of four million bags hence significance reduction of a maize flour," Uhuru said. The President spoke when he officially opened the 2018 Nairobi International Trade Fair show at Jamhuri grounds. The Head of State's directive to millers followed after Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko warned that the county would withdraw licences for retailers who sell maize above Sh75 for a 2-kg pack. Sonko asked Uhuru to allow the county enforcement officers crackdown on traders who sell maize beyond the stated rates. "Mimi napeana onyo kwa wenye maduka na super market wote. Serikali na bunge ya muheshimiwa rais hawajaoengeza bei ya unga." "Wamesema unga paketi mbili iuzwe kwa shillingi 75. Wale wote wauza zaidi ya hio, tutaitisha leseni zetu, tufunge duka lako na upelekwe kortini kwa kutapeli wakenya," he said. (I am warning shop owners and supermarkets against selling maize beyond Sh75 since the government has not increased prices for the same....We will withdraw licences against those who contravene the directive and charge with fleecing Kenyans). For his part, the President said millers should be considerate and mindful of their social responsibility to Kenyans. "I swear before God let NCPB try messing with farmers cash again. They will see what will happen to them. We shall follow the concerned. They must return the money," Uhuru said. Uhuru further cautioned traders and retailers against taking advantage of the 8 per cent VAT on fuel products to increase the prices of maize flour. "I want to support what governor Sonko has said. Supply has risen and thus dealers in all these precious commodities should ease prices. They must exercise high integrity in their businesses so as to to exploit Kenyans." Maize millers had announced plans to increase unga prices by between Sh4-Sh8 to reflect the increased costs occasioned by the fuel tax. More on this: Small millers to increase unga prices by Sh4-Sh8 The president said his administration is still focused to ensure Kenya is food secure by 2020. "We must conquer hunger as was the vision of those who fought for independence." Click here for the latest political news