TITLE Matriarch ArtistE Wanja Wohoro GENRE R&B/Soul RELEASE September 21  A brilliant and inspired voice, the latest songbird taking over the world of music streaming, Wanja Wohoro, 23, is a force not common to the local scene. There is a distinctive approach to her delivery, and her vocals present an artiste ready to drive her aesthetically appealing statement of intent. Her skill is not limited to her voice, but she is indeed a talented guitarist as well. Not long ago, Wanja Wohoro released a joint project, ‘Dust’, with EA Wave’s very own Jinku. It was a powerful downtempo release, which comprised of two tracks: “Dust” and “Poison”. The young singer decided to follow that up with her latest addition, ‘Matriarch’, which is hinged on serene grooves and authentic beats. She effortlessly coalesces contemporary R&B with a local sound to deliver a more afro indie style of music. The nine-track album, which focuses on female empowerment, kicks off with “Roots”, which is a great acoustic introduction into the project. Kato Change joins her on the album second track, “Youth”, to deliver his brilliance on the guitar. On the third track, “Mumbi,” we get to experience a jazz-inflected tune, which address the effects of male dominance to the existence of women. She extends the Jazz effect to “Home”, when she recruits the spectacular trio Nairobi Horns Project. Throughout the album, one quality that is quite clear is that there’s a lot of simplicity in the artiste’s poetic lyricism. This is witnessed in tracks such as “Mine” and “You”. “Voices,” which is probably the most essential track on the album, skilfully addresses violation against women.  She also emphasis this on the album title track “Matriarch” before she closes out the album with Tetu Shani on “Binti.” On this effort, it’s obvious she aspires to be a matriarch and a greater influence to her fellow women. She details her reality the best way she knows how to through music. She speaks for the women in the society and fights for what is right for everyone. Overall, this is a strong debut album and we can’t wait to see what she offers in the future.  Star Rating: 4/5