Since the early 1990s, when I became socially conscious, the maize and sugar industries have been in perennial crisis ranging from financial scandals; acute shortages, non-payment of farmers, exorbitant consumer prices, excessive importation of produce to policy confusion over the respective roles of national and county governments. The invariable effect of these unending crises is that maize and sugar cane farmers are permanently unhappy lot in times of lean and bounty harvests whilst the consumers of these products get a raw deal in seasons of good production and whenever government permits duty-free imports from dirt-cheap markets. In the possible exception of the arms trade, it is difficult to imagine any other industries that the State plays a more dominant role than in the maize and sugar industries. Commonsense dictates that in the absence of positive contribution by the State in these industries there is no justification for the bureaucrats and power brokers in Nairobi to retain control over their fate. Coincidentally, both the maize and sugar sectors are currently in deep crisis and the same national government that could objectively be the principal villain and hazard has appointed two committees to give redress to the myriad of man-made disasters plaguing them. Given the massive public funds that the government puts every other year into the maize and sugar sectors without any tangible benefit to the farmer, consumers and the tax payers, the time has come for Kenyans to ask hard and inconvenient questions: Is government the author of these crisis or the solution to the problems facing these sectors? If with all its massive resources the national government cannot afford to make these industries economically viable, is there a country government that can maintain these loss-making enterprises? Who are the true beneficiaries of this primitive socialism in the maize and sugar industries? Any genuine attempt to answer these questions must acknowledge four things. First that Kenya is a capitalist state in which individual and the private sector should own the means of production and government should facilitate production through good policies, laws and economic incentives. In other words, the State has no credible role to be the main purchaser of maize and principal owner of sugar factories. Second, in view of the division of functions between the national and county governments in the Fourth Schedule of the Constitution, the mandate of National Cereals and Produce Board (NCPB) is redundant and the State cannot legitimately order farmers about which sugar mill they should sell their cane. Third, Kenya does not produce enough maize and sugar cane for the local market and so from an economic standpoint there is no reason why farmers cannot get just returns from their produce. Fourth, since ugali – which is made from milled maize – is consumed at least once daily in virtually every Kenyan household, there is no reason why the milling industry should continue to be dominated by the NCPB and a cabal of milling companies. In my view, if Kenya had serious and capable ministers responsible for national planning, the economy and agriculture, the milling industry and attendant purchase and storage of maize would be cottage industries in which small and medium scale business enterprises thrive. The same logic applies to the business of selling farm inputs such as fertiliser and seeds. The Constitution in Article 201 commands State officials entrusted with use and management of public funds to do so prudently and responsibly. With this in mind, Bungoma senator Moses Wetang'ula is right in observing that “it does not make economic sense for NCPB to buy maize at Sh3,600 and sell it at almost half the price”. It is even more scandalous that more than 750,000 bags of maize valued at Sh1.8 billion have gone to waste because the board ignored warnings from their store managers to buy the right insecticide. On closer reflection, the crises in the sugar and maize industries are permanent because they serve vested interests of those who could make a difference. At the political level food security is a noble goal pursued by all governments but many insecure governments are averse to the confidence of a food secure citizenry. Crucially, entities such as the NCPB, state sugar factories and schemes such as the Strategic Grain Reserve are useful and easy vehicles to pilfer massive public resources. For instance, if the cowboys claim three million bags were used to feed hungry Kenyans when only a quarter of the consignment was use,d how can we verify that? Similarly, the State has given more than Sh20 billion to publicly owned sugar factories to buy new machines, grow sugar cane, pay suppliers and farmers. Today these factories are a heap of scrap metals, farmers have not been paid and are abandoning cane farming in droves. The reason is simply that there is no personal cost to misappropriation of public funds in these sectors because of high political stakes. Let us face it: The votes in the sugar and maize-growing areas are simply too many for successive presidents to attract their wrath by turning off the pipes that feed the gravy train. Therefore, if President Uhuru Kenyatta is serious about reforming the maize and sugar industries the starting point should be to depoliticise them, cut taxpayers’ losses and apply economic shock therapy to the counties and Nairobi-based eating chiefs who benefit from endless government rescue packages to salvage farmers from man-made crises. The NCPB should be disbanded and a cottage food industry supported. Finally, the national government should transfer for free the heaps of scrap metals that pass for sugar factories to any willing county government. The writer is a Constitutional lawyer kibemungai@yahoo.com 