Kilifi police commander Fredrick Ochieng has defended his officers against accusations of taking sides in land disputes. He denied allegations by some politicians, who have accused the officers of abetting land grabbing by developers and evicting residents. Ochieng spoke in his Kilifi office on Monday. “Leaders should stop misleading the public by inciting them to invade private land. No police officer in Kilifi county has assisted anyone to grab land.” He said security officers are committed to protecting lives and property. Ochieng said when someone receives an eviction order from the courts, then police officers have no choice but to provide security during the eviction. “This does not mean we are party to the dispute or eviction,” he said. On Saturday during Mashujaa Day celebrations at Karisa Maitha grounds, Kilifi senator Stewart Madzayo told the county police commander not to allow his officers to be used by land grabbers to frustrate residents. He said Kilifi police serve the interests of developers who have rendered most residents landless. “County commander, warn your officers against being used to frustrate our people. They should stop evicting people without verifying the ownership of the land in dispute,” Madzayo said. He said most tycoons use fake title deeds and police assist them to evict people without knowing the authenticity of the document. Madzayo threatened to name land grabbers in Kilifi in the Senate. He said most grabbers are legislators from other regions. But Ochieng said when a court order is issued, an officer is sent to the court to verify the authenticity of the document. “When there is a dispute, the investigating officer takes the title deed to the Lands Registrar to verify if it’s authentic. The registrar must confirm in writing that the holder of the title deed is the bona fide owner of the land,” he said. Ochieng said they do not provide security during evictions unless the defendant or his/her agent confirms to have received the eviction notice. Governor Amason Kingi accused police of arbitrarily arresting people by branding them squatters. Kingi said most residents follow the law. “Police must stop this habit of targetting only residents in their arrests. We have land officers selling public land and when our people occupy the same land they are arrested and non-locals go free,” he said. Kingi accused the National Land Commission of failing to address the land problem. “If you listen to speeches from leaders across the region, land will be the main topic. The NLC has failed to use its constitutional powers to help,” he said, County commissioner Magu Mutindika said the NLC is to blame because it is the government agency mandated to handle land matters. “You should not blame the police. They are only doing their job because if one has a genuine title deed, then he or she is the owner of the land,” he said. Mutindika said police are only involved in land matters to maintain law and order.