The Ministry of Agriculture imported four million bags of maize illegally last year, a Senate committee has established. Senator Okong’o Omogeni said this was according to documents tabled by the Agriculture CS before the the ad hoc committee on the maize crisis co-chaired by Prof Margaret Kamar and Moses Wetang’ula. The committee asked Agriculture CS Mwangi Kiunjuri who authorised the importation of four million bags of maize in 2017. He said the inter-ministerial committee authorised importation of six million bags of maize according to the minutes of June 21, 2017. According to documents tabled in the Senate, the country imported 10 million bags by December 2017. Bungoma senator Wetang’ula asked the CS to show proof of the minutes, but Kiunjuri could not explain who authorised the importation. Read: Maize Scandal, KPLC Audit, Moraa Inquest: Your Breakfast Briefing In May 2017, the government allowed importation of maize through a subsidy programme to cushion consumers against high unga prices, which had hit a record high of Sh150 per 2kg packet. The importation was to end in September but the Agriculture ministry extended the window to December. Kiunjuri said the country at any given time needs 1.4 million bags of maize. He said when the then Agriculture CS extended the importation period for one month, the NCPB received 190,019 bags of maize from local farmers. There was a deficit of 1.2 million bags. Kiunjuri could not explain how 600,000 bags were imported in November and how the government had a surplus of 400,000 bags in December. As the imports were still getting into the country, the government went ahead to open doors for farmers to sell maize to the NCPB, there creating an influx. “From what the CS has told us, it is evident that of all the maize being stored in the cereals board, farmers delivered less than 50 per cent,” Uasin Gishu senator Kamar said. She said despite the Kenya Bureau of Standards warning that 66.3 per cent of the maize stored in depots is contaminated, no action has been taken. “The ministry should take action by dealing with the contaminated maize so that we do not lose more maize. This delay tactic could see the country lose more maize in the silos,” Kamar said. Wetang’ula urged the CS to clean up the historical mess at the NCPB at whatever cost. Click here for the latest political news