Nigerian comedian Mark Angel, whose comedy skit features his cousin Emmanuealla, says despite his fame today, nobody laughed at his first-ever joke. The comedian started off in 2011 and currently has over 2.5 million subscribers on YouTube. "My first gig, I cracked a joke and nobody laughed, apart from my MC. In fact, I was going to quit but my MC then told me to start a YouTube channel just to show people what I am doing," Mark told Adelle and Shaffie on Kiss FM. "My second gig was in church and they all laughed, even the pastor. Since then, I started creating short videos." Mark also recounts that even with the huge number of followers on social media, there was a time he used to struggle to get views. "Everybody gets disappointed and my first video, for four months, I got four views, and I had to tell my friends to start viewing my page and it got to 200 views," he said. "Were it not for passion, we don't just do it to have views, but when people saw that we had passion, they started coming to our page, and that is why we have grown," he said. Emmanuella is eight years old and has managed to become one of the best-known child comedians. "Before featuring in my videos, she used to be so talkative. At the age of three, you would think she was eight years or something. So I thought of what we would do together. Nigerians do not have a YouTube culture. Kids want to watch kid comedians, and that is how I we started," he said. How is Emmanuella able to balance her education with acting? "We make sure we select what she does. She lives in the school and so when she is doing the shoot, we make sure we get the permit from the school, and we return her immediately after the shoot. The school knows that she has to make a living, and so they allow her," Mark said. "However, she has had to miss so many opportunities because of school. People call from Hollywood and we deny that because school comes first for her." From research and YouTube views, Mark says that most of his viewers are Kenyans, Indians and Americans. His advice to young comedian is: "Don't get distracted. You alone cannot keep the brand, you need family and friends to keep you going. You cannot market your work alone, you so need people to help you. Keep your content unique and consistent," he said.