The Senate ad hoc committee on the maize crisis will recommend the dissolution of the NCPB so most of its functions are taken over by the counties. Uasin Gishu senator Margaret Kamar, who chairs the committee, and vice chairman Moses Wetang’ula said the counties should be allowed to take over the agriculture sector which is more than 95 per cent devolved. “From the views we have already gathered, it’s likely that we will do away with the NCPB as it’s constituted now. We will recommend scrapping of the act under which it operates,” Kamar said in Eldoret on Saturday. She said the board was no longer effectively serving farmers because it was engaging in activities that should be under counties. Wetang’ula said there had already been recommendations that counties take over the NCPB stores and supply of subsidised fertiliser, but the government still controlled both. devolution “The Council of Governors is partly to blame because they are not seriously following to take up what is devolved. Let them go to court if need be and we will support them,” he said. Wetang’ula said cartels had taken over control of operations of the board, but the cartels would be dealt with if counties take charge. Farmers who met the committee in Eldoret and Kapsabet said government control of the sector was hurting them. “We want the counties to have a larger say in matters that are being run by NCPB,” farmer and politician Jackson Kibor said. He said farmers have suffered at the hands of the government and full devolution of the sector was necessary. policy formulation A section senators and MPs have backed the proposal to dissolve the board. The committee said the board cannot operate effectively as it is, yet agriculture is largely devolved. The committee will present its proposals to the Senate in the next few weeks. Moiben MP Sila Tiren said the EACC should also complete its probe into scandals at the board so that its operations are overhauled. But speaking separately in Eldoret, Finance CS Henry Rotich said while there was need for some reforms in the agriculture sector, the national government had a stake, especially as concerns policy formulation. He said there was need for wide consultation on the matter of restructuring the NCPB and other institutions in the sector. The national Treasury finally released Sh1.4 billion to pay maize farmers starting yesterday, Rotich said. The more than 500 farmers have waited to be paid for nine months.Rotich said should the money be inadequate, additional funding would be availed to NCPB.