Kenyan marathon runner Samuel Kalalei (pictured), who won the Athens marathon last November, has been banned for four years after testing positive for blood-booster EPO, the Athletics Integrity Unit (AIU) has said. Kalalei’s urine sample, which was collected after the Rotterdam Marathon in April, had returned positive for EPO. The 23-year-old was provisionally suspended by AIU, the independent agency of world athletics ruling body IAAF, on June 4. The AIU said that all of Kalalei’s results since that event in the Netherlands would now stand disqualified. Kalalei had set a personal best time of two hours 10 minutes and 44 seconds to finish in seventh place. Kenya’s reputation as a dominant force in global middle and long-distance running has been tarnished in recent years by doping cases among their elite athletes. Earlier this year, the AIU handed four-year doping bans to Kenyan long distance runners Eliud Magut and Suleiman Kipses Simotwo. Both had tested positive for Norandrosterone, a metabolite of the prohibited Nandrolone. A World Anti-Doping Agency report said that between 2004 and Aug. 1, 2018, as many as 138 athletes from the east African nation had tested positive for prohibited substances, 113 of them during competitions. Meanwhile, International Olympic Committee admitted nine new members but snubbed both soccer’s Fifa and athletics’ IAAF again as both have struggled with widespread corruption and doping scandals. Greece, host of the first modern games, was also left out in the cold for the third year running, in the wake of bitter disputes there over control of the national Olympic committee. Morinari Watanabe and Andrew Parsons, the heads of the international gymnastics federation FIG and International Paralympic Committee (IPC) respectively, were among those to join the committee. They were joined by Italian Olympic Committee President Giovanni Malago, whose country is bidding for the 2026 winter Games. The other IOC inductees were senior national Olympic committee members Samira Ashgari from Afghanistan, Prince Jigyel Ugyen Wangchuck from Bhutan, Daina Gudzineviciute from Lithuania, Camilo Perez Lopez Moreira from Paraguay, Felicite Rwemarika from Rwanda and William Blick from Uganda. While membership of the IOC for the heads of soccer and athletics, two of the world’s largest federations, was seen as almost automatic for years, the committee did not propose Fifa President Gianni Infantino or IAAF President Sebastian Coe this time. Despite presiding over two of the most popular sports in the world, Fifa and the IAAF have been embroiled in a range of scandals in recent years. The IOC also snubbed Greece - host of the first modern Games - for the third year running, leaving it without a representative since 2015.  