Chemelil Sugar Company chairman Bundotich Zedekiah, better known as Buzeki, has called for a bailout to revive the miller. The company is struggling to pay its Sh1.9 billion debt owed to KRA after resuming operations two months ago. Managing director Gabriel Nyangweso said they need a Sh600 million bailout to repair equipment for efficiency.  The miller also needs Sh500 million to pay salary arrears and another Sh181 million and Sh32 million owed to farmers and transporters, respectively. Buzeki, who led the board of directors on a tour of the miller on Monday, said the factory is key to President Uhuru Kenyatta’s Big Four agenda. He asked the President to pump more money into the company to make it more productive. He said the government should give priority to state-owned factories if it wants to realise its development agenda. “We want action by Uhuru’s administration in reviving the ailing sugar sector. These factories are crucial to thes economy because they employ many people directly and indirectly,” Buzeki said. He said the government must stop illegal importation of sugar to save local industries from collapsing. He said supporting factories for more sugar production will benefit both millers and farmers. “We want sugar barons arrested irrespective of their status,” Buzeki said. He said state-owned millers were suffering because of an influx of illegal sugar. Chemelil has more than 21,000 bags of sugar in its warehouse due to unfair competition caused by cheap imports, he said. “The sugar industry should be protected because it supports the livelihoods of millions of Kenyans. Our farmers have suffered for a long time,” he said. Buzeki accused private millers of cane poaching instead of funding farmers to develop sugarcane. He said they will impound tractors of the private millers if poaching does not end. “Private millers must grow their own cane. They cannot harvest cane from farmers they did not fund to grow the raw materials,” he said. Chemelil operations were halted in March due to cane shortage and lack of funds. Nyangweso said the debts include tax and penalties which daten back to 2002. “The debts were accrued as the production was not sustaining liquidity and money meant for paying taxes was used for operations,” Nyangweso said. KRA froze the miller’s accounts in February last year to recover its cash. The accounts were opened last month after the company agreed to pay KRA Sh40 million per month. Nyangweso said they will hold talks with KRA to review the terms. “We are still crushing 1,400 tonnes of cane per day instead of our capacity of 2,800 tonnes. The company is unable to sustain paying Sh40 million at that rate,” Nyangweso said.