Migori Governor Okoth Obado has urged voters in the county to turn out and vote in the Monday by-elections. He asked his supporters, whom he rallied to vote against ODM candidate Ochillo Ayacko, not be distracted by his woes. The county chief campaigned for Senator candidate Eddy Gicheru Oketch before he was incarcerated. Obado was charged with the murder of his girlfriend Sharon Otieno who was found dead and her body dumped in a thicket on September 4. He also faces charges of conspiring and financing the medical records student's killing. He denied all the accusations. The governor will appear before Justice Jessie Lessit for the hearing of his bail application on the same day of the by-election. In a voice recording from prison, the governor told his supporters that his woes are political, assuring them that the same will end soon. He asked them to turn out in large numbers and vote for the Federal Party of Kenya ticket holder. The governor was elected on an ODM ticket. He broke ranks with Ochillo - the ODM candidate, after the latter challenged his governor win in the August 2017 election. "All people should come out and vote...don’t sleep at home with your votes," he said in the recording which was widely circulated on social media. "What is burdening me is politics. Mine has been exaggerated and blown out of proportion," Obado laments. It is not clear if the audio clip was recorded while he was at Industrial Area Prison or at Kenyatta National Hospital. Obado was on September  27 denied bail until after witness statements and other evidence is shared with all parties. The clip surfaced a day after ODM leader Raila Odinga said he will not support Obado in the case despite receiving calls to do so. Raila said: "Justice should take its course in the case." He termed the murder as witchcraft. "It was unfortunate that a very young woman and her angel were murdered brutally. If the killers didn’t need the child or the mother, they should have spared their lives." On Friday, Obado filed a fresh application in court seeking to have his bail reviewed citing health issues. He was admitted to Kenyatta National Hospital after he reportedly fell sick while in remand at the Industrial Area prison. Read: Health issues: Obado files fresh application seeking release Click here for the latest political news