Kiambu county might reinstate fees and licences for small-scale traders. The traders were exempted from paying the fees to encourage young people to start their own business. The county government says the businesses have now matured and should start paying tax. Finance executive Wilson Kang’ethe made the proposal through a statement on revenue raising measures for 2018-19 to supplement the county’s Sh15.62 billion budget. He said the county will no longer exempt barbershops, salons and hawkers from paying fees. Kang’ethe said he will also focus on land and property rates as a source of revenue to finance development projects and provision of essential services. Land and property rates had been reduced earlier following public outcry. The county government says it will receive Sh12.8 billion from the national government and Sh2.7 billion from its own sources of revenue. In the Finance Bill 2018, the county proposed to raise parking fees from Sh50 to Sh100 in Thika, Ruiru and Kiambu towns. The administration said residents park their vehicles in these towns and travel to Nairobi by public means. Nairobi charges Sh300 for parking. The Bill also proposed that single business permits be reverted to the old charges that were reduced to promote small business growth. Governor Ferdinard Waititu reduced single business permit fees as soon as he took office following an uproar from traders who had sued Governor William Kabogo’s administration. A court ruled that the old fees were null and void as no public participation was conducted before they were imposed. In the budget announced in June, recurrent expenditure stood at Sh9.6 billion, with a wage bill of Sh5.6 billion. Operations and maintenance expenditure was estimated at Sh3.9 billion, while development took up Sh6.02 billion. The county assembly was allocated Sh1.20 billion for recurrent expenditure and Sh55 million for development. The county service board got Sh74.3 million while the Health department was allocated Sh4.95 billion. Agriculture and livestock got Sh780.1 million while roads, transport, public works and utilities got Sh1.423 billion. Education youth, sports, culture and social services was allocated Sh1.501 billion. 