MPs from Ukambani have defended their State House visit ahead of last year’s election, saying it has borne fruits. The visit was roundly criticised, given the region is considered a stronghold of Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka who was the running mate of Opposition candidate Raila Odinga. Six MPs from the region on Monday said they don’t regret the visit. They are Victor Munyaka (Machakos Town), Vincent Musyoka (Mwala), Fabian Kyule (Kangundo), Nimrod Mbai (Kitui East), Rachael Nyamai (Kitui South) and Erastus Kivasu (Mbooni). The lawmakers spoke in Machakos when they accompanied Deputy President William Ruto during the commissioning of the upgrading of Kimutwa-Makaveti-Kwa Mutisya road in Kalama. The road is being upgraded to bitumen standard. The MPs said their visit has opened doors for state-sponsored development in Machakos, Makueni and Kitui counties. “Six major roads have been commissioned by the national government in Machakos alone yet when we went to State House to ask for development, it was said we were selling away the Kamba community,” former Kilome MP Regina Ndambuki said. The MPs praised President Uhuru Kenyatta and Ruto for initiating development projects since Jubilee came to power in 2013. “Your energy and commitment to serve the people has impressed all of us. You are tried, tested and ready for bigger things in 2022. Carry on with your development projects,” Musyoka said. “We want to work with those people who are ready to work for Kenyans.” The Mwala MP said the 2022 presidential battle will be between dynasties and hustlers. “It does not matter who will be on the ballot,” he said. The MPs criticised politicians attacking Ruto with corruption claims, saying such allegations were baseless political propaganda. “Where you started, where you are now and where you are headed is very clear. It is possible for you to become president,” Mbai told Ruto. He challenged those with facts supporting the corruption claims against Ruto to take the DP to court. “Do not use corruption claims in politics, bring facts,” Mbai said. Kivasu said the handshake between Uhuru and Raila has united all Kenyans, including Kambas. “We as Kambas will support and work with the government,” Kivasu said. Nyamai said Ukambani was in dire need of development. “We are not ashamed to work with the President and his deputy because our people want development. It was not in vain that we campaigned for Jubilee in Ukambani,” Nyamai said. Munyaka said the government had commissioned the construction of Maanzoni-Mua, Konza-Makutano, Kipambini-Kwa Mutisya and Kimutwa-Kwa Mutisya roads due to their loyalty to Jubilee. Other projects include construction of Thwake Dam and Konza City