Lamu MCAs will introduce a motion to compel the national government to compensate in cash all residents whose land will be acquired for national projects. The move comes following wrangles surrounding the mode of compensation for locals whose lands have been acquired for the Sh.2.5 trillion Lapsset project, the proposed Sh200 billion coal plant project and the Sh21 billion wind project in Lamu West. The investors want locals to accept alternative resettlement as compensation instead of money. This has been opposed both by residents and their leaders. Speaking in Lamu yesterday, Lamu deputy speaker Abdalla Baabad said the MCAs will make it compulsory for any investor acquiring land in the region to pay the affected persons in cash. Baabad said local leaders are concerned that investors take advantage of the lack of proper land legislation in Lamu to enforce alternative resettlement instead of paying people for their land. He said potential investors should beware that Lamu has no idle land for alternative resettlement, other than the Boni forest, which is home to the Boni community. He said the rest of unoccupied lands in Lamu are terror hotposts and are unsafe for habitation. “We just want to make it clear that there are no free lands here.People must be ready to buy land like they would elsewhere,” Baabad said. “This issue of alternative resettlement is pretentious and is meant to dupe our people into remaining poor. We won’t take that.” With the new terms, all investors who want land in the region will be required to enter into a compulsory MoU with the county government on the cash compensation for land owners and also their exact mode of operation while in Lamu and how the county stands to benefit. “Only then will they be given a go-ahead to start whatever investment they want. Other than that, we would rather not have them here. People have taken advantage of the land situation here in Lamu long enough. We are putting our foot down and saying enough,” said Hindi Ward MCA Anab Hajji. The MCA, who is also the Lands committee chairperson, said the other members were in agreement concerning the matter. She said they were also concerned that some of the national projects end up acquiring more land than what was agreed on, resulting in unwarranted conflict. Hajji said the impending motion will guard against such cases. At Kwasasi where 975 acres have been acquired for the coal plant, the land owners were recently shocked to learnt that they would be resettled instead of being paid in cash.