Deputy President William Ruto has said the Opposition has gone into panic mode because of his close working relations with Coast leaders. Ruto said the "Opposition suffers panic attacks whenever he tours the region. He said it was ironic that the Opposition was talking of uniting the country yet at the same time in the process of disciplining some MPs from the region for working with him. The DP spoke in Voi on Monday in the company of Taita Taveta Governor Granton Samboja and more than 20 MPs from different political parties. The Deputy President said he will continue associating with all leaders of different backgrounds for the country's development. He asked why the Opposition was claiming to be building bridges of unity in the country while at the same time isolating and discriminating others. At the same time, Ruto asked the Opposition to stop pretending to be the ones spearheading the fight against corruption. "The Constitution is clear; we have independent institutions charged with the fight against corruption, resources wastage and mismanagement," he said. He said if the leaders in the Opposition have no agenda for Kenya, then they need not to politicise the fight against corruption. "Importantly, leaders should focus on discussing issues that would transform Kenya rather than wasting time talking about others," he said. Related: [VIDEO] Raila wants me out of Jubilee, says Ruto Ruto said together with President Uhuru Kenyatta, he was focused on the implementation of the Big Four Agenda. "Our politics is development focused. Our main agenda is to empower all Kenyans economically. We are not like those other greedy politicians who waste their time to talk about others," he said. The DP was addressing wananch during the launch of the Voi Modern Market. He was accompanied by among others Suleiman Dori (Msambweni), Ali wario (Bura), Hashaka Wario (Garsen), Owen Baya (Kilifi North), and Senator Juma Wario (Tana River). Also present was Said Haribae (Galole), Senator Anuar Toitiptip (Lamu), Badi Twalib (Jomvu), Stanley Muthama (Lamu West), and Danson Mwashako (Wundanyi). Others were Benjamin Tayari (Kinango) nominated Senator Christine Zawadi, Khatib Mwashetani (Lunga Lunga), Shariff Ali (Lamu East) Aisha Jumwa (Malindi), Lydia Haika (Taita Taveta), Michel Kingi (Magarini), and Gertrude Mbeyu (Kilifi). The leaders said despite threats from the Orange Democratic Movement, they would continue supporting Dori, who is the Coast parliamentary group chairman. Mwashako said they are united as leaders from the region, and whatever direction their leader gives would be final. "This time around, we are not playing blind politics. We will not just follow others. We will follow go where our people benefit," he said. He was supported by Taveta MP Naomi Shaaban who noted that the region will never be in the opposition. "We know too well the price of being outside the government. That will not happen again. We are in the government and we are not ashamed of being associated with development." On his part, Dori said the region was united and interested in politics that will better the lives of people. "We are after unity. We must put aside our political differences and work towards development," he said adding that the Coast region’s support for Ruto in 2022 is guaranteed. Earlier, the Deputy President commissioned CT Scan Imaging Centre at the Moi (Voi) county referral hospital which he said will cut travels by patients to Mombasa, Nairobi and Tanzania. Ruto said the national government will work with the county government to construct an Intensive Care Unit at the county hospital. "We will also assist in the expansion of the Kenya Medical Training College in Voi. Already, we have set aside Sh10 million for this work." Also read: Murkomen backs Ruto, cites handshake in 'ODM scheme to break Jubilee' Click here for the latest political news