In March this year, the Kenya National Bureau of Statistics reported that at least 5.2 million Kenyans capable of being economically active were unemployed or under-employed. The household budget survey showed that this is about 27.2 per cent of the 19.3 million Kenyans who are considered economically active and are between 15 to 64 years. Interestingly, according to the 2017 Kenya Job Market Report, the unemployed are not the only ones job-hunting. Seventy three per cent of employees are also actively looking for jobs. On top of this, another 25 per cent of employees would be open to a new role if it came to them. Of those employed, 8 out of 10 employees plan to leave their current employer within the next 12 months, mainly due to the desire for higher salaries. The report notes that 58 per cent of employed Kenyans have not had their salary raised within the past 12 months. The rest want to leave due to professional reasons, such as career progress, job security and work environment. Only five per cent leave due to conflict in the workplace. Has the white-collar-job syndrome taken a toll on millennials? Speaking to the Star on the phone, human resources consultant Mercy Mugo said a decision to leave a permanent and pensionable job to be your own boss has some risks and disadvantages that millenials are not willing to take. She defines millennials as people born between 1980 and 2000, who appear to be more prone to immediate gratification and the need for rapid development and advancement. Majority have a side hustle, also referred to as the “after-five job”. They consider their friends who have side hustles as having made it in life. James Indize, a banking digital media executive, said: “I cannot leave a steady paycheque to join the business world full of uncertainties.” He said there is a likelihood of one losing their entire investment if the business does not succeed. And a high capital requirement, which may be hard to raise, is one of the reasons he cannot leave his job. Moreover, he fears the unpredictable long working hours of entrepreneurship and the issue of overcoming pressure from the society. “Parents and family make young people believe they must be in formal employment to be successful, and that pressure freaks me out.” FOLLOW YOUR PASSION However, Mugo advises that entrepreneurship presents an opportunity for immediate gratification and the need for rapid development that millennials are accused of in the workforce. “The confident and optimistic attitude displayed by millennials will make them successful in this space,” she said. Mugo says the merits of entrepreneurship include the ability to follow one’s passion, high financial returns, employment creation to other young people and getting personal and financial freedom. She urges the government and parents to support millennials to acquire the right talents and improve on their entrepreneurial skills and the potential to create more jobs. According to her, parents should let their children make their career decisions and allow them to follow their passion, and encourage them to enrol in technical institutions, where they will gain technical skills, whose demand in the market is more than the supply. “Millennials should take advantage of these initiatives and drop the white-collar job syndrome, the moment we do away with this mentality, it will be a huge step towards achieving zero unemployment”. Youth Enterprise Fund chairperson Ronnie Osumba said small businesses should be formalised and their contribution to the economy made substantive. He called for a tax, licensing and regulatory regime that spurs small and mid-market growth. This is even as 50 per cent of those who are unemployed have been jobless for at least one year, according to the job market report by Brighter Monday. The study notes that this group feels their lack of experience and the oversupply of graduates, coupled with few job opportunities, are hurting their employment prospects.