Nairobi governor Mike Sonko has finally neutralised the influence of State House and stamped his authority at City Hall. Only days after suspending the State House-fronted county secretary Peter Kariuki, Sonko has created a new position ­— deputy county secretary — and filled it with his close ally Leboo Morintat. The position does not exist in law even though the chairman of the county public service board Philip Kung’u approved and defended its creation. “Section 46 of the County Government Act allows the executive committee to restructure the organisation of the government. So it is not against the law,” Kung’u said. Political observers view Sonko’s move as a plot to lock Kariuki out or have Leboo checkmate him in the event State House forces Sonko to reinstate Kariuki. Kariuki worked at the project delivery unit in the Presidency before his appointment as county secretary. Sonko suspended him two weeks ago alongside Public Management executive Vesca Kangogo, a confidant of Deputy President William Ruto. The pair, together with Health chief officer Mahat Jimale and County Attorney Lydia Kwamboka, were suspended for insubordination after they contradicted the governor on the rot at Pumwani Hospital. This followed the governor’s discovery of 12 dead infants at the facility. Apart from Kangogo, Sonko has also suspended Health executive Hitan Majevdia for alleged incompetence and sacked Finance boss Danvas Makori for being a spy. He has also sent home dozens of other county officers. While Sonko has defended his actions saying he is fighting corruption and getting rid of incompetent and disloyal staff, political analyst Herman Manyora sees the governor’s actions as that of a person struggling to be his own man. “It is normal that many people, once they get to power, they then desire to be their own men and that is normal,” he said. Manyora said that Sonko could be fighting to stamp his authority after initial reports that Jubilee and State House influenced the appointment of Polycarp Igathe (former deputy governor) as his deputy in last year’s polls, as well as county executive members. “And the delay in nominating somebody to be deputy, some people say it is Jubilee trying to influence the appointment. So is possible that he is trying to be his own man. It is quite possible,” Manyora said. He also said Sonko’s actions, especially on Kariuki’s suspension, amounted to defiance of President Uhuru Kenyatta. Theanalyst says this could be part of Sonko’s political alignment for 2022 elections. “People you never expected to say no are now saying no to him. So we are also in a season some people think Uhuru is lame done and the economic hardship in the country is also making people defiant,” Manyora added.