MPs get back to business tomorrow after a month-long  break against the backdrop of a disenchanted citizens unhappy with the way MPs passed Finance Bill,2018  and raised taxes. On Friday last week, a report
released by Kenya National Bureau of Statistics showed in the month of
September shot up to  an 11-month high at 5.7
per cent, indicating tougher times ahead as effects of value added tax on
petroleum hit. The prices for both food and
non-food items rose marginally, pushing inflation from a low of 4.04 per cent
in August. The MPs will also be meeting for
the first time after the chaotic scenes that characterised the passage of the Finance
Bill which is now an Act two weeks ago. Some jubilee and Nasa MPs united
on one hand to opposed the Bill which not only saw introduction of new taxation
regime but also introduction of 8 percent VAT on petroleum products. Read: How Muturi, Duale tricks helped Uhuru Finance Bill to pass On the other hand, a team of MPs
from the political divide led by Majority leader Aden Duale and his Minority
counterpart John Mbadi teamed up to support the Bill which Kenyans had
described as oppressive. Some MPs in Jubilee and ODM have
already issued threats that they are considering removing Duale and Mbadi from
their powerful positions but time will tell if the move will materialise considering
that the two leaders had the blessing of their respective party leaders-
President Uhuru Kenyatta and Raila Odinga respectively. “The decision to remove party
office holders is not done in the streets it must be sanctioned by the party
leadership. We were under strict instructions to ensure that the government
carries the day and for sure it did,” Duale said yesterday. On the in-tray, are numbers of
Bills all coming up for debate, most of which are from Senate. They include the County
Governments (Amendment) Bill, the Urban Areas and Cities (Amendment) Bill, The
Warehouse Receipt System Bill. The two
Houses-Senate and National Assembly- must concur on Bills before they are
assented to by President. There has been a concern by the
National Assembly that the Bills they pass and forwarded to Senate takes long
before the Senate considers them. Bills generated by the National
Assembly which are lined up for debate include the Health Laws (Amendment)Bill,
the Capital Markets (Amendment) Bill and the Insurance (Amendment) Bill. On Wednesday morning, the
legislators are expected to resume debate on The Constitution of Kenya
(Amendment) Bill sponsored by Kiminini MP Chris Wamalwa. The Bill is seeking to have the
General Election held in December instead of August. The Deputy Minority Whip who is giving a
second attempt to change the election date argues that there is need to push
the date to December which is “a more favourable date” to Kenyans, adding that
people are normally busy in August compared to December. "The current date for the
General Election unduly disrupts the education calendar and, most importantly,
the national examinations in case of either a fresh or run-off or invalidation
of a Presidential election,” Wamalwa says in his Bill. He also notes: “"Also, the
tradition of reading the budget concurrently in East Africa has been disrupted
by the current election date”. See also: MPs race against time to pass key laws before end of sittings Click here for the latest political news