President Uhuru Kenyatta’s low cost housing project does not make economic sense to investors, according to a leading real estate property expert. Hass Consult research analyst Sakina Hassanali said although it is feasible to construct 500,000 housing units in five years, the project’s profitability to local private investors raises questions. “Developers are not actually able to build low cost housing because it is expensive as they will be taking on a lot of government’s work including infrastructure development,” she said. Hassanali said the local private real estate sector lacks an understanding of what the housing plan actually entails, expected benefits and their role as investors. “There is a lot of ambiguity around what the plan actually is and what and how it is going to be rolled out,” Hassnali said. “Particularly confusing is the housing tax.” Under the current plans, the government intends to build houses of one, two and three bedrooms which will be sold at Sh600,000, Sh1 million and Sh3 million respectively. To finance the project, Treasury imposed a new tax where employers will contribute 1.5 per cent of monthly basic salary from each employee and remit it to National Housing Development Fund on or before ninth day of the preceding month Employees will equally contribute another 1.5 per cent subject to maximum contribution capped at Sh5,000 from January next year. Hassanali said government needs to look into providing long-term solutions for the development of low cost housing units rather than adopting a blanket solution. She said the government should establish why local developers are not attracted in investing in low cost housing projects “Private sector will find its way to profitable enterprise, so why is affordable housing not profitable for them at the moment?” she posed. Hassanali said they were yet to be engaged by the government adding that local industry players are crucial for understanding the dynamics of supply and demand in the local market. According to KPMG, of the 2.48 million Kenyans employed in 2016 only 77,000 earned more than Sh100,000, the threshold for affordable housing. This means potentially 2.4 million Kenyans qualify for affordable housing against the governments target of 500,000 housing units in five years. “Government should go into the bottlenecks of why affordable housing is not being produced in large scale and fix those things instead of just coming up with a one-time project,” Hassanali said. The key issues, she added, include poor infrastructure, inability for low income households to access financing and the question on taxation.