MPs yesterday sent away Kenya Railways acting MD Philip Mainga saying he was irresponsible after failing to provide a report on the status of loans advanced to entities that have leased the agency's land. The agency has leased out 25 parcels of land but Mainga said he was unable to tell which entities the properties were leased to and whether they had secured loans using the land as collateral. Members of the Public Investments Committee wanted to whether there were loans, how much and the status of repayment. Corporation was on Tuesday unable to furnish parliamentary committee on investments details of their leased lands used by 'new' owners to get loans. Acting KR Managing Director Philip Mainga backed by his corporation secretary and the acting finance manager yesterday appeared at the National Assembly Public Investments Committee (PIC) but with no report on the status of loans charged on KRC leases to dismay of MPs. The committee had summoned KR to give account on the name and persons they have leased land their lands to, how many have used the land as collateral to secure loans from banks, what amounts and the status of repayment. “Its a hard task for us because we are dealing with private entities. We are not able to get the details from our clients because that information is confidential,” Mainga said. Read: Railways boss quizzed after developers encroach on land "What we have are Kenya Railways is the leases." Committee chairman Abdulswamad Nassir said they was risk of the land being auctioned if the entities don't finance their loans. “I find that submission very irresponsible. You are a CEO of a public property and Kenyans have a right to information including status of the loans," Nassir said. "You cannot come here and tell us that this matter was confidential. We want documents that show Kenya Railways reached out to those who have leased the land," Chris Wamalwa said. Mainga said he had been in office for just two months and therefore was not aware of the most details. But the MPs could here none of it. “Kenya Railways is not a private property but an institution with systems. So whether the MD leaves or not, the information must be available,” Homa Bay woman representative Gladys Wanga said. See: Senate summons Kenya Railways, labour CS over alleged mistreatment of SGR employees “I sincerely apologise. We will provide all leases and consent letters including the loan status to the committee in one week," Mainga said. He said he appeared before the committee because he did not want to fail to honour the summon. "I got the letter of invitation to appear before this committee in October so it was a bit fast to put together the information," Mainga said. But Nassir said the summon was made on September 5 and the MD ought to have prepared the details. Click here for latest political news  