Director of Criminal Investigations George Kinoti yesterday said his partnership with the DPP’s office will bear fruit. He said the newfound working ties between the DCI and the ODPP will help them work well as a team to secure convictions. Kinoti spoke at the launch of the Prosecutors Training Institute and the induction of new ODPP staff. He said his officers go through a lot rigorous work to bring evidence to court and it is upon the prosecutors to ensure their cases are not thrown out. Their partnership includes having prosecutors go to the field with detectives to gather evidence, he said. The DCI and ODPP officers familiarise themselves with cases way before they are presented in court, Kinoti added. Some 90 inductees will be trained in the next couple weeks and they will later be sent out to all the 47 counties in all the 120 court stations. Read: Work with Kenyans to restore confidence, Maraga tells new DIGs Haji urged the trainees to be diligent and have high standards of professionalism and discipline as they discharge their duties. “This is the first induction training programme I’m witnessing since I became DPP. Unlike in the previous programmes, which lasted only two weeks, this unique progamme is longer and has been tailored to mould you into a more skilled and efficient ODPP staff,” he said. The DPP also urged new prosecutors to pursue justice every day in every case they handle no matter its weight. It is more important than any training they will ever receive, he said. “Together we can build a fair, efficient and just criminal justice system in Kenya for today and for the future of our great nation,” Haji said. He said the new state counsels will be trained by experts drawn from Kenya and abroad, including investigators, forensic experts, prosecutors, judicial officers, defence counsel, witness protection and academicians. Attorney General Paul Kariuki, Court of Appeal judge Patrick Kiage and Judiciary chief registrar Anne Amadi, among others, were also present. See: Consider police rights too, Maraga tells IPOA as commissioners sworn-in Click here for the latest political news