National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi will lead members of the Privileges Committee to the women’s washrooms to probe sugar bribery claims. Appearing before the Powers and Privileges Committee on Tuesday last week, Kiambu Woman Representative Gathoni Wamuchomba claimed she heard female colleagues confessing how they were given money by Wajir Woman representative Fatuma Gedi to vote against the sugar report. Wamuchomba said she was at the toilet lobby where she heard the voice of her colleagues from the cubicles making the bribery confession. She, however, told the committee chaired by Muturi that she did not identify them as they went mute after hearing her receive a phone call. It is this claim that will make the committee visit the lavatory to ascertain whether it is possible for people sharing cubicles to talk to each other and whether someone at the lobby can eavesdrop on their conversation. Wamuchomba will accompany the House team to the toilet to demonstrate the events of August 30, minutes before the MPs voted against the report. “She (Wamuchomba) could be present to us where she was and where the others were,” Muturi directed. “It is fair for us to just see and make determination from a point of knowledge. We therefore should be there by 9am and vacate the facility as soon as possible because it will be a day when the House will be on session.” Read: Naked bribery in the House as MPs reject sugar report Muturi spoke after the committee listened to the last witness – Nyeri Woman Representative Rahab Mukami – over the sugar bribery claims which have rocked the house over the last two months. Mukami confessed to the committee how Gedi threw tantrums at her when she (Mukami) confronted her as to why she was lobbying members to shoot down the report. “She told me that we are targeting the two Cabinet Secretaries who were mentioned in the report because they are not Kikuyus,” testified Mukami who sits at the Trades Committee which jointly with Agriculture committee came up with the report. “Gedi was going round the chambers lobbying members lobbying members to vote against the report.” She however denied seeing money exchanging hands. The report had recommended that National Treasury Cabinet Secretary Henry Rotich, EAC Adan Mohammed and former Agriculture CS Willy Bett to take personal responsibility for the influx of contraband sugar in the country. Read: Muturi to MPs: Produce dossier on sugar bribery claims Also See: Sugar bribe dished out in toilet – MP Click here for the latest political news