The number of Kakamega residents who died in last week’s road accident at Fort Ternan in Kericho has risen to 37 after more bodies were received by the burial committee. The county will today hold a requiem mass for the victims at the Amalemba grounds from 9am. Governor Wycliffe Oparanya said the county government will pay mortuary bills and provide coffins. Chairman of the committee organising the mass Musa Chibole yesterday said the number could increase after six more bodies are identified. The six are at the Kericho County Referral Hospital mortuary. “We are still receiving bodies. One arrived last evening. So far, we have received 37 bodies but two have already been buried by relatives,” Chibole said yesterday. One body has been held following a dispute among relatives. The committee yesterday went to Kisumu to buy coffins. Kericho governor Paul Chepkwony is expected to attend the mass, committee member Dick Rayori said. Chepkwony has announced a waiver of treatment expenses for survivors of the Wednesday morning crash. The accident claimed 58 lives. The Homeboyz bus was travelling to Kakamega from Nairobi when its brakes failed causing it to roll several times. BUS OWNER ARRESTED Yesterday, Oparanya said 50 of the 71 passengers were destined for Kakamega. Three were travelling to Vihiga, one Bungoma and Kisumu each. On Friday, relatives recounted the plans of their loved ones as bodies started arriving in Kakamega. Victim Saleh Okumu was on his way to Navakholo from where he was to take his bedridden sister Pacila Masinde to Moi Teaching and Referral Hospital in Eldoret for a cancer operation. “Our sister has been down for close to a year and he had promised to take her to hospital,” Cassim Masinde said. Okumu was the firstborn in a family of six. Driver Lucas Abdalla, 72, succumbed to injuries a day after the crash. “He temporarily drove long distance lorries but decided to look for a steady job after his daughter joined Kaimosi Teachers College,” cousin Steward Kikuyu said. Edward Mukasia said his wife Nancy Muhonja was returning home after vising their daughter who had undergone an operation in Nairobi. On Friday, a court in Molo allowed police to detain bus owner Cleophas Shimanyula and company manager Bernard Shitiabayi for 10 days as probe into the crash is concluded.