Kenya Forest Service has netted more than Sh22 million as saw millers raced against time to clear their debts. Forest Plantations and Enterprise acting deputy chief conservator Zipporah Toroitich yesterday said they had recovered Sh22,044,516.80 by last Friday. The amount is part of the Sh1.2 billion the saw millers owe after harvesting trees. “The process of recovering the money is underway,” she said. The KFS had dispatched demand letters to the millers who had defaulted. On September 6, KFS acting chief conservator Monica Kalenda said some saw millers had not paid after harvesting trees. “It’s a matter of great concern to the KFS board that the service is owed Sh1.2 billion by saw millers. Demand letters have been issued to all the debtors to clear these bills in 14 days commencing today or they will be disqualified from prequalification,” she said. Of more than 800 saw millers prequalified by the agency, 600 had not paid. Kalenda had announced new measures to weed out unscrupulous saw millers. She said saw millers would no longer be registered manually. Instead, prequalification would be done electronically. Read: Logging ban limited to public, community land - Tobiko “There’ll be no interaction with saw millers to curb collusion,” Kalenda said. The system to be used for registration is almost up and running. Kalenda said saw millers have in the recent past caused wanton destruction of forests. “The service has found it imperative to commence fresh prequalification of saw millers to identify authentic industry players. For the first time, the service will utilise e-registration to carry out the process,” she said. Salome Kiprop, a timber manufacturer from the North Rift, yesterday welcomed electronic listing. She urged saw millers to clear their debts. “Money must be paid,” she said. Kiprop attended the September 12 meeting. Most saw millers turned up for the meeting fearing they could be locked out if they snubbed. Kiprop said their machines “have been idling following the logging ban by government”. The moratorium on logging and extraction of timber was imposed on February 24 and was due to lapse to May 24. It was, however, extended for another six months to allow the Environment ministry to streamline KFS operations and management. Read:MPs urge Uhuru to ban logging and declare it national disaster The ban followed a damning report by a task force that had been formed to look into forest management. It revealed that the custodians had ravaged precious natural resources for their own selfish gain. It said the KFS had destroyed swathes of precious trees and the board and management in some instances directly participated in, abated and systemised rampant graft and abuse of office. Under the new strict conditions, registered millers will be required to have only one company. Hoarding of forest materials will be illegal.