Kajiado county lost Sh1.4 billion earmarked for boreholes, a forum convened to resolve the water feud between three counties heard yesterday. Governor Joseph Lenku said no borehole was drilled, yet the cash, part of which was a donation from Belgium, could not be accounted for. “This was an embarrassment because we took a helicopter and I mobilised people. We also slaughtered goats only to be embarrassed,” he said, adding that the 53 boreholes exist only on paper. Another Sh200 million was also lost due to poor governance at the Nol-Turesh Water and Sanitation Company. Apart from a Sh100 million loan that is unaccounted for, the water company spent Sh11 million on chapatis and mandazi. Lenku has in the recent past been at loggerheads with Machakos and Makueni counties over water. In March, he declared that water supplied to Makueni and Machakos counties by Nol-Turesh Water Company would be stopped until parts of Kajiado benefit from part of the supply. In June, the feud escalated further after a section of Mombasa highway was closed for hours by residents of Emali, Makueni county. The residents protested against water shortage. Emali, though in Makueni county, is served by water from Nol-Turesh that produces 12,300 cubic metres of water. The protests caused a traffic snarl up for more than seven hours. Water CS Simon Chelugui yesterday stepped in in the latest bid aimed at addressing the wrangles. Devolution CS Eugene Wamalwa, Makueni governor Kivutha Kibwana and Machakos deputy governor Francis Maliti attended the meeting. Wamalwa said the situation was embarrassing. “I went to launch the water project with the governor (Lenku) and I was totally embarrassed. I noticed that there was some disquiet and I was told there was no water,” he said. Lenku said the genesis of the Nol-Turesh issue was when water that used to feed swamps in the area was piped. “Nol-Turesh belt dried and became a semi-desert,” he said. Lenku said the changing economic activities of the Maasai from pastoralism to  agriculture means they need water for irrigation. Read: Kajiado county to sink 300 boreholes No salary Originally, he said, Maasais were not in the picture as no water points had been provided for them. Lenku said a line by railway that had been put up and whose water was solely for irrigation had been neglected. Consequently, farmers started using treated water for irrigation. Among issues that Lenku wants addressed are drying swamps and addressing the plight of communities who are now farming and dependent on  Nol-Turesh. Following the poor governance at the water company, 51 out of 78 Nol-Turesh staff went on strike after failing to get salary for 11 months. Three have however returned to work while 48 have failed. Machakos Water CEC Naomi Mutie, Makueni’s Robert Kisyula and Kajiado’s Florence Waiganjo are the current board of directors. They unanimously agreed to revive the company, including amending articles of association for three counties to own the company. Kisyula said demand letters have been served to those who made away with funds. He said should the 48 staff be sacked, Sh61 million will be needed for salaries, Paye and sacco contributions. Sidian Bank has threatened to take over the company that is losing Sh31 million every month due to unaccounted for water over outstanding loans. Chelugui constituted a team to look at how best to run the company. He warned those who embezzled funds that action will be taken against them. Click here for
the latest political news