A new report has exposed major financial and procurement loopholes in the construction of the new Sh50 billion oil pipeline, putting Kenya Pipeline bosses on the spot. The KPC top brass have been on the radar of graft detectives for months and were last week grilled by sleuths over alleged embezzlement of funds for the construction of a Sh1.9 billion oil jetty in Kisumu. A special report by Auditor General Edward Ouko indicates that the contractor of the Mombasa -Nairobi pipeline wanted an additional Sh24 billion on top of the contract sum of Sh48.5 billion. According to the report, the huge controversial payments demanded by Lebanese firm Zakhem International Construction Company forced President Uhuru Kenyatta to stop further payments. Read: Company wants Sh2bn KPC sub-contract stopped “According to the 79th board meeting of April 11, management undertook not to pay any claim without first informing the President, whohas direct executive oversight over KPC via the Cabinet Secretary,” the report says.  Zakhem is demanding Sh20.4 billion for project delays known in engineering parlance as extension of time claim and a further Sh3.8 billion for contract variations.  There were five extensions of time during the four-year contract period. KPC consultant Shengli Engineers,evaluated the first two extension of time at only Sh72.8 million, an amount trashed by Zakhem. Another consultant, Nyara Consult, hired to review the claims as an expert scheduler, assessed the amount payable to Zakhem for four extensions at Sh4.4 billion. Zakhem wanted Sh18.9 billion for the four extensions. The audit has also exposed inconsistent details about Zakhem Construction Company, a firm whose initial profile was flaunted as international, consisting mainly of foreign professionals. While expressing interest in the tender, Zakhem provided a list of 14 key technical persons, 13 foreign nationals and one Kenyan. The list was latter changed with Kenyans literally taking over as the key technical staff to deliver the multi-billion project. “None of the 14 key technical persons listed in the expression of interest were proposed as the key technical persons in the request for proposal. On the contrary, a totally different list was proposed comprising eight technical persons out of whom six are of Kenyan nationality,”the report says. See: EACC sleuths raid homes of Kenya Pipeline officials in Sh600m flawed tender probe For instance, instead of Ambrose Chibuzo, a Nigerian being engaged as project manager, the firm brought in a John Besigen. Moeen Asif, an alleged Pakistani who was to be the project electrical engineer, was replaced by a Peter Mwaniki. Curiously, 23 days after the contract was signed, Zakhem registered a local branch in Kenya under the name of Zakhem International Construction Company. Ouko said some KPC staff could have engaged in unethical conduct in the procurement of the consultants and the contractor. “There were some pertinent issues observed and documented under the procurement process for the contractor and consultants, which point to possible unethical behaviour of those involved in the respective procurements,”Ouko said. The auditor flagged out the engagement of Nyara Consult at Sh30.9 million as a possible case of contract manipulation. The consultant was hired through restricted tendering that was approved by CEO Joe Sang. The auditors trashed the argument by management that the list of registered arbitrators was obtained from the institute’s website. “No such list has been seen on the website,”the report said. “Question is, is there possibility that other qualified expert schedulers were left out of the list and that only unqualified companies were asked to participate so that a target consultant could emerge the only qualified bidder?” Nyara Consult was just a few months earlier engaged by KPC in a separate work on Line 1 pipeline. “Is it right that from the onset, KPC was determined that this consultant would be awarded the contract?” KPC managers and board members were late last week grilled over alleged embezzlement of funds for the construction of an oil jetty in Kisumu. Among those who were lined up for questioning were Sang and KPC chairman John Ngumi.  Click here for the latest political news