The murmuring about unpaid allowances have subsided and Harambee Stars will be hoping to take another important step towards qualifying for next year’s Africa Cup of Nations that has been slated for Cameroon in June. Beating favourites Ghana in their second match provided much needed boost for Sebastian Migne and his charges going into this evening’s clash against Ethiopia, who are also on three points in one of the tightly contested groups in the 2019 qualifiers. The presence of skipper Victor Wanyama will give Kenya more confidence that they can pick an unlikely win in front of what is expected to be a hostile partisan Walya Antelopes squad. Coach Migné expressed optimism that Stars will give a good account of themselves while noting that captain Wanyama’s inclusion is a big boost to the team’s pursuit for a second appearance at the continental showpiece. “Of course it won’t be easy against Ethiopia since they are also equally strong, but my players are up to the task and I am confident we will get a positive result,” said coach Migné. “We won against Ghana without our captain. It will be morale booster for us to also win with him. He is one of our most experienced players and will be crucial for us against Ethiopia,” he added. David owino will not be in the squad as he continues recovering from an injury but Brian Mandela is back after serving his suspension. Ayub Timbe will still miss out and it’s a case of touch and go on who will play in the right back position with Musa Mohammed and Philemon Otieno both taking a claim for the position. Impressive in the last match, Francis Kahata is assured of starting in the creative role with either Johanna Omollo or Teddy Akumu partnering Wanyama in midfield as Eric Johanna plays the floating role behind Michael Olunga. The match will be played at the Bahir Dar Stadium with the return leg set to be played on Sunday at the Moi International Sports Centre (MISC), Kasarani. Victory for Stars, followed by another four days later will put them in a good position to pip Ghana for the sole qualifying slot ahead of the crunch tie against Sierra Leone here in Nairobi.