Is the President planning far-reaching changes in government in the coming days? Well. Corridors of Power has learnt that in a few days’ time new appointments into government that will include staunch allies of former Prime Minister Raila Odinga could happen. It is understood that the Opposition chief has forwarded some names for possible inclusion in the looming reshuffle that will mostly affect state parastatals and some ministries. The NASA chief’s allies will take up positions in directorates as CEOs including those of seven that are about lapse.  The office of the Auditor General could soon be under severe test should reports
that a top manager is engaged in corruption be confirmed. The officer based at
the headquarters is said to have created an intricate corruption ring involving
officers from the field offices known as hubs. A case in point is a scheme by
his officers to clean a serious audit query involving Nyamira county
government. The conspicuous query was raised during the audit process but the
county failed to provide satisfactory documentations in its response. While
field officers forwarded the report with the query, our mole tells us the
senior official had it cleared in unclear circumstances.   A former MP from Kisii county known to be wealthy and with influential
business connections must be a worried man. The man who runs a multi-billion manufacturing
concern is facing the taxman’s guillotine over tax arrears in millions. The
Kenya Revenue Authority has hit him with a Sh100 million tax claim. Efforts by
the MP to use his previous connections at Times Towers to evade the tax proved
futile this week after he was busted alongside his accomplice. The man risks
attachment of his assets to recover the tax.   It is no doubt that DP William Ruto has in the recent past been
traversing the country launching ‘development projects.’ However, some are now
asking whether some parts of Nyanza region are not slated for any development. Neither
President Uhuru Kenyatta nor Ruto have found or even scheduled any launch of a
development project in the former Nyanza counties except Kisii, Nyamira and
some parts of Migori county largely inhabited by the Kisii and Kuria communities.
Corridors is keeping an eye on the diary to see if there is any “launch” in the
coming days.    Is there some sort of laxity at City Hall's Inspectorate department? Only
less than three months after some illegal structures were brought down in Buru
Buru estate, already new ones are being erected on Sonko Road. On Sunday,
some traders were seen building the illegal structures on the right hand side
of the road linking Umoja estate and BuruBuru. Well, it is a cycle, isn’t it? 