A Milimani magistrate yesterday directed Serious Crimes Unit commander Obadiah Kuria to effect the warrant of arrest against the detective investigating former Nairobi governor Evans Kidero’s son Ronald Odhiambo over sale of adulterated fuel. Chief magistrate Francis Andayi directed Kuria to arrest constable Vincent Langat, who is wanted for failing to serve Ronald’s lawyers with witness statements and material the prosecution intended to depend on during his trial. Langat ought to have supplied Ronald’s lawyers with the material within two weeks after plea taking and before the mention. The trail cannot start until the defence receives the documents. The hearing was set to start on September 24. Andayi issued the orders to Kuria after state counsel Kajuju Kirimi said Central police station OCS Simon Kerich indicated he cannot effect the order. Kerich told Kirimi that Langat is not based at the the station. Langat had held Ronald at the station before he was presented to court for plea taking. Ronald was charged with storage of substandard petroleum products on August 10, but his trial has never started. He denied the charges before Andayi and is out on bond. Read: Kidero son arrested as father stays in cell His lawyers complained of Langat’s failure to serve them with the statements before he was summoned and later a warrant of arrest was issued. Motorist David Nyamu had lodged a complaint with police after fuelling at the Shell petrol station at Ridgeways along Kiambu road owned by Ronald Kidero, on August 3. Samples taken by the Directorate of Criminal Investigations allegedly found that the fuel was substandard. malice Early this month, Kidero hit out at the anti-graft agency over what he termed malice, witch-hunt and intimidation. He claimed he does not own most of the 13 pieces of land the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission had said belong to him. Read: Kidero's son denies adulterated fuel charge, freed on Sh100,000 cash bail Click here for the latest political news   