Leaders from Garissa, Mandera and Wajir have said residents should be required to compensate families of non-local victims of al Shabaab. In this way, residents are less likely to be tempted to help terrorists and deny important information to security agencies, they said. On Tuesday, participants in a conference on countering violent extremism and radicalism passed various resolutions,including the one on compensating victims. The two-day meeting ended yesterday in Mandera Town. “We are faced with a very serious crises striking that strikes at the very heart and soul and threatens the spirit of our existence as a county,” Mandera governor Ali Roba said as he read resolutions. “As we leave this conference, let act on the recommendations.” One resolution said all three counties of Mandera,Wajir and Garissa should be required to contribute an equal amount to compensate fmilies of slain terror victims. It is not clear if the resolution is practical or enforceable, or whether county assemblies would support it. The counties are poor. “Let it be a lump sum amount, Sh1 million and above so residents feel the pinch to deter those who aid terrorists,”said Mandera governor Ali Roba who read the resolutions. The conference called for an inclusive approach to countering violent extremism, radicalisation and ethnic clashes. Security agencies alone and force cannot end the problem, participats said. The leaders agreed to “aggressively sensitise” the public on the effects of violent extremism and radicalisation. They pledged to encourage hte public to provide timely intelligence so that terrorism can be prevented and attacks responded to. The Northeastern leaders — politicans, elders and community figures — resolved to work with the national government on an all-inclusive, structured amnesty, disengagement, rehabilitation and reintegration of al Shabaab youth. Women and youth should help prevent violent extremism, they said. A joint committee will be formed and request Interior CS Fred Matiangi to give amnesty to young men who have joined the militatns. They also asked for financing so they can hold frequent meetings in their areas to tackle emerging problems. The security personnel were also asked to have a service charter ensuring there is quick response, In the past they were blamed for for being slow to react. The conference also called for security personnel to “change tack” in Somalia. Al Shabaab says it is trying to drive Kenya and other foreign forces out of Somalia. It was also agreed that security information shared by civilians must be treated with utmost confidentiality so as not to put sources in danger.   