Construction and Environmental management authorities are banking on training Kenyans on legal requirements that will cushion them from costly demolitions. The National Construction Authority (NCA) and the National Environment Management Authority (Nema) said this in a statement on Monday. "There is an urgent need for construction professionals to review the correct legal approval process to safeguard future projects and avoid losses." Government agencies have stated that about 4,000 buildings are targetted for demolition in Kenya. Related: Nema gives 14-day demolition notice for Seefar apartment in Nyayo Highrise NCA and NEMA sit in the technical committee charged with auditing unsafe buildings and those built on wetlands. They said the current demolitions, whose primary focus is reclaiming riparian land in Nairobi, exemplifies cost of neglecting the legal process. The two authorities announced they will utilise The Big 5 Construct East Africa - the official exhibition of National Construction Week, to highlight these issues. Over 220 exhibitors from over 20 countries, including Qatar, Germany, Turkey, France, Italy, China, and Greece will showcase the latest building innovations and solutions. Stephen Mwilu, NCA manager of regional offices, said: "We'll help construction professionals understand the reasoning behind the ongoing demolitions in Kenya." The official said that demolition should be carried out in the reverse order of construction as far as appropriate. The structural elements, ahead of the internal floors, should be demolished in the following sequence: the slab; the secondary beams; then the main beams. See: [VIDEO] Java Kileleshwa hit as NEMA demolishes structures on riparian land According to NEMA, non-compliance includes adding extra units on top of the approved ones, encroachment into a road reserve, encroachment into a riparian reserve, and failure to observe a building line and setbacks. Leah Mutonyi, an environmental expert, said that even when approval has been granted, failure to comply with the conditions can set stage for a demolition. Click here for the latest political news