The launch of the Sh2.8 billion bank for the Lake Region Economic Bloc is likely to be delayed until the end of November to allow member counties to ratify the bill enabling its formation. The regional development bank was to be launched during the bloc’s trade conference in Bomet from October 23 to 26. The group brings together Nandi, Siaya, Nyamira, Migori, Bungoma, Busia, Kakamega, Kisumu, Kisii, Homa Bay, Trans Nzoia, Kericho, Vihiga and Bomet counties. The county assemblies were expected to have adopted the agreement signed by the 14 governors in Kakamega in March before the next week’s conference. But only Kakamega and Kisii county assemblies have passed the bill to approve formation of the bloc. Members on Friday unanimously agreed on a one month extension for the assemblies to approve the bill. Bloc chairman Wycliffe Oparanya said they were still on track for establishment of the bank. At least six county assemblies are required to ratify the bill for the bank to become operational. “We have urged the remaining 12 county assemblies to pass the LREB Bill by end of November to hasten the process of unveiling the financial institution,” Oparanya said. The Kakamega governor spoke on Friday during a meeting with 703 MCAs and their leaders at Kisumu’s Simba Club. He said the registration of the bank was ongoing. The region has about 14 million residents. Oparanya said the bank will promote development. The Friday meeting was attended by governors Anyang’ Nyong’o (Kisumu), Joyce Laboso (Bomet), Wilbur Otichillo (Vihiga) and Cornel Rasanga (Siaya). Deputy governors from Kisii, Homa Bay, Nandi and Trans Nzoia counties were also present. However, there were no representatives from the executives of Migori, Bungoma and Nyamira counties. The three-day trade, investment and blue economy conference to be held in Bomet will be attended by President Uhuru Kenyatta, Laboso said. Laboso is the bloc’s vice chairperson. Member counties are required to pay Sh200 million for the formation of the bank, which is the bloc’s flagship project. Oparanya said members have already committed Sh1.35 billion to the project. “The members have committed various amounts in their budgets and we expect to have this money soon to unveil the bank,” Oparanya said. The bank is expected to enhance access to credit for counties and entrepreneurs in the region. Nyong’o called on MCAs to pass the bill. He said any amendments will be made after the draft agreement is approved.