Newly crowned 2018 Most Valuable Player (MVP) Erick Kapaito is confident he can cope with the pressure and criticism that comes with his new status. In the past, winners of the award have come under sharp criticism for failing to maintain consistency but Kapaito insists he is ready to handle the pressure and challenges linked to the gong. The Kariobangi Sharks forward defied competition to emerge as the new MVP in Kenyan football, where he floored his predecessor Mike Madoya, Bandari duo of Felly Mulumba and Farouk Shikalo and Cliff Nyakeya to the trophy. The former FC Talanta striker, who began his professional football last year at the National Super League side, also scooped the New Player of the year and the top scorer’s award. He expressed confidence in maintaining his lethargy and living to the standards which befits a player worth an MVP tag. The gong has in the past been associated with a “curse” which adversely neutralises the recipients form but he hopes with hard work and dedication, he will keep his star shinning. While it was widely expected to come as a shocker for a player who has been in the top tier for one season, Kapaito said he was not astonished to be voted the best. He said: “I am ready to handle the pressure which comes with winning the MVP award. I know expectations from all quarters are high and I am sure I will overcome it and continue doing what I do best. It is an achievement which I have really worked for and I am not surprised to win it. I will keep the same spirit I had last season and improve on my areas of weakness.With hard work and dedication, I am confident of maintaining good form and aiding my club in achieving better results next season.” With Sharks set to make their maiden appearance in the Caf Confederations Cup courtesy of winning the SportPesa Shield Cup, the club will largely rely on Kapaito for goals after his challenger to the starting role Ebrimma Sanneh was released on Friday. The exit by Sanneh who was mostly used as a super sub leaves him and George Abege as the remaining centre forwards in the club but he has refuted claims that he is under pressure to make Sanneh’s presence a thing of the past. “The good thing at Sharks is every player can score and I believe through team work, we will be banging in goals irrespective of whether I play or not. Sanneh is gone. He was a great player and the focus turns on me and Abege but on my part, I am not under pressure to make his (Sanneh) presence forgotten. My target is to assist the club make good progress in the continental assignment as well as the domestic league.”