Coincidence
is when God chooses to be anonymous. A couple of disparate but highly
interconnected occurrences happened this week. Richard
Quest, a Cable News Network (CNN) international anchor and reporter, was in
town. And our report card boasted of straight A’s after a morning run in Karura
Forest, a kiss from our giraffes and an admission of our business acumen and
investment readiness. All was going well until he encountered our infamous traffic
menace. And with good reason, we scored an F in traffic. During
the same week, former Prime Minister Raila Odinga publicly announced his new role
as African Union High Representative for Infrastructure Development. His main
tasks will be to spearhead the construction and upgrading of selected roads and
railways to facilitate fast movement of goods and services. Meanwhile,
Nairobi governor Mike Sonko has announced an increase in motorists parking fees,
ostensibly to bridge his budget deficit. However, this could be interpreted as
a dual win for him because it would ostensibly be viewed as a measure to
decongest the city through the reduction of motorists willing and able to pay
the cost. Was
God being anonymous in raising our conscience on the renewed need to address our
traffic mess? The
traffic jam phenomenon has baffled many experts for decades. Road systems in
several major cities, including Nairobi, have continued to expand in the 20th
Cvfentury. Despite the expansion, or more accurately because of it, traffic
congestion has increased in tandem. And its ensuing effects ranging from man
hours lost, air and noise pollution, and road safety are undisputable. A
road is often classified as a public good because it is non-rivalrous and
non-excludable. This means that no-one is excluded from using it and everyone
can simultaneously use it without reducing its value to other users by its
usage. However, it ceases to be a public good when it gets congested. At this
point it becomes a club good. This is because when there is no more space to accommodate
other cars, it excludes other people from using it thus making it
rivalrous. When
we are stuck in traffic, our default is to wish there were extra lanes to
reduce the congestion. This is because we erroneously view traffic as a liquid
which requires a certain volume of space to pass through at a given rate.
However, the reality is that traffic is more like a gas, which expands to fill
up all the space it is allowed. But how does this happen? There
are two basic choices for transportation — public and private cars. If a new
road is constructed in the area you live, it will make the private commute much
faster than public transportation. So people pile into private cars, and since
public transportation relies on the public to make it profitable, piling into
private cars reduces its demand and subsequently its supply, eventually slowing
down, even further the public commute. Initially, the private car users benefit
from the new road. But this reduced travel time encourages other people in your
area to start driving, and very quickly, your commute reverts back to its
original length before the road was built because of the increased demand from
other users. And this is what befell the Thika Superhighway. In
economic-speak, we call this induced demand. This means that when you increase
the supply of something, it makes people want that thing even more. This is
also known as latent demand, which means a demand exists, but for a number of
reasons, it is suppressed by the inability of the system to handle it, and once
the additional capacity is added to the network, the latent demand emerges as
actual usage. A study by California’s Department of Transportation found that a
10 per cent increase in highway capacity yields a six per cent increase in
vehicles use. Thika Superhighway was officially opened in 2012. In 2013,
Nairobi was ranked sixth worst city by the Serbia traffic index and by last
year, we were ranked as the second worst. The increased lanes on the highway
induced this latent demand. This
phenomenon simply follows the demand and supply economic principle. If you
increase the supply of a product, it lowers its costs, and its consumption
increases. Likewise, if you increase the size of the roads, the time spent on
it is lessened, thus reducing the cost of time and fuel. This, however, motivates
more people to use the road thus making the expansion counterproductive. In
a bid to restore our city roads to a state of public goods and to decongest the
Central Business District, the nation has spent more than Sh100 billion in the
expansion of roads, including the Thika Superhighway, Outering Road and the
Southern Bypass. But the positive effects are yet to be felt. I,
therefore, submit that we need to be bold and unabashed in our decongestion
solutions. We need to invest more in organised, civil, and safe public
transportation and ban all matatus as a mode of public transportation. Any
amount earmarked for road construction in our national budget going forward should
be invested in the construction of subway tunnels for high capacity rapid metro
trains that can move masses of people across long distances in a matter of
minutes. In addition, we should invest in light rail tram systems to transport
people within the CBD. We
also need to invest in the construction of safe and pleasant cycling and
pedestrian infrastructure. Like a demilitarised zone, these will separate the
users making everyone comfortable in their respective lane. This will also
bring with it health, environmental and economic benefits as people exercise
while walking or cycling resulting in lower health care costs and pollution. To
decongest roundabout gridlocks, we should invest in innovation that detects the
volume of traffic and automatically controls the lights accordingly. And to
discipline the rogue drivers who disobey traffic lights unless there is
presence of a traffic officer, we should erect alligator teeth traffic control
systems that lift sharp spikes up when the light is red, and fold them flat when
the lights turn green. This will reallocate the resources of traffic police
from being simply occupied to being gainfully employed in averting crime. Finally,
we should provide tax incentives to the private sector to develop multilevel
parking spaces that can accommodate volumes of cars in a small surface area. But,
expecting the beneficiaries of kickbacks and revenues accruing from road
construction and traffic menace to allow the rest of the city to freely move,
is like expecting a bull not to hit you because you are a vegetarian. Why do they call it rush hour when nothing
moves? - Unknown  