The multibillion-shilling KIEMs kits tender split IEBC commissioners four months to last year’s General Election, the commission’s records indicate. A plenary meeting held at the commission’s boardroom on March 31 last year ended in division with four commissioners voting to have OT-Morpho supply the 45,000 KIEMS kits used in the last election, beating their rival camp by a vote. IEBC chairman Wafula Chebukati voted alongside commisioners Consolata Nkatha, Roselyne Akombe and Margaret Mwachanya to approve the OT-Morpho deal. Commissioners Boya Molu, Paul Kurgat and Abdi Guliye opposed the idea which was being pushed by the secretariat according to records of the plenary meeting tabled before a parliamentary committee. Kurgat’s team argued the deal did not offer value for money as they expressed strong opposition to the secretariat’s evaluation report. Read: CEO Chiloba suspended, IEBC in chaos Access plea The dissenting commissioners also raised issues with technical capacity of M/S Safran and Security to deliver, especially on results transmission. “There were concerns on the value for money. It was observed that a lot of expenditure on items that could be obtained at a lesser cost such as training components as well as the technical support were overpriced,” reads a section of plenary minutes. On Tuesday, IEBC’s acting CEO Marjan Hussein told MPs Chiloba approved the direct procurement method and that commissioners played no role. IEBC spent Sh4.19 billion for the 45,000 KIEMS kits used on the August 8polls and another Sh2.5 billion – two months later – for the repeat presidential election. Read: Ezra Chiloba, two others take leave from IEBC ahead of polls Chebukati led the IEBC team during yesterday’s appearance before the Parliamentary Accounts Committee chaired by Ugunja MP Opiyo Wandayi. The commission was responding to concerns of loss of billions of shillings in procurement deals before the August polls which were pointed by Auditor General Edward Ouko in his 2016-17 report. At first, Chebukati tried to have the MPs examine only relevant parts of the plenary meetings, arguing that most of the records were confidential and were not directly relevant to the audit queries raised by Ouko. “The minutes include other issues other than the procurement. We feel that we should only extract matters relating to procurement and give the committee,” Chebukati pleaded. Molu, who accompanied the election boss, also supported the chairman’s request to have PAC only access relevant plenary records. But Wandayi would hear none of the pleas. Click here for the latest political news     