The Murang’a government will not get 25 per cent revenue for water drawn from the county, governors and two Cabinet secretaries agreed on Monday. The Council of Governors and CSs Eugene Wamalwa of Devolution and Simon Chelugui of Water also want ownership of the Murang’a Water Services Company handed over to the Murang’a government immediately. CoG said the Japan International Cooperation Agency (Jica) has identified water sources and how they can be supplied across the nation. “County governments and the national government should also adopt a framework of sharing of water resources as developed by Jica,”Meru Governor Kiraitu Murungi said yesterday. He spoke on behalf of governors at their headquarters in Nairobi. CoG called the meeting following the water crisis between Murang’a and the national government over the use of Ndakaini water. They agreed to set up a task force to push for equal sharing of resources. The governors want the task force to have representatives from the CoG, the Ministry of Water and Ministry of Devolution to resolve water issues. The county bosses also want the national government to implement a national resource sharing plan. They said Murang’a Water Services, a private company, has borrowed billions of shillings. Counties that use water from Murang’a are Kiambu and Nairobi. The county chiefs also dropped all the monetary conditions but demanded the national government to consider first the counties that provide water, in their planning. “We want the government to take advantage of the Jica water master plan and implement it so we can address these challenges,” the Meru governor said. Murang’a Governor Mwangi wa Iria had demanded his county get 25 per cent of revenue collected from water sourced from the area. “I’m a second-term governor and I can authoritatively say Central Kenya counties are often underfunded in revenue allocation,” Wa Iria had said. He wants the Constitution amended to provide equitable sharing of national revenue. He said he will soon launch the Rasilimali Initiative, to champion the cause. Wa Iria said most Mt Kenya counties get a small share of the national cake, yet they have high populations. He said the country must avert possible clashes over resources. He said Murang’a with a population of 1.5 million people gets Sh6 billion, while some counties with hundreds of thousands of people get more than Sh10 billion.  