The Homa Bay County Assembly borrowed funds and paid allowances to some MCAs without approval, an EACC report shows. Some ward representatives were paid allowances for travels never undertaken and sittings they did not attend. The assembly also withdrew funds to pay for MCAs’ mortgages and car loans without approval. These and other findings are in the report presented to the executive and the assembly on Tuesday. The Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission established that the assembly borrowed Sh60,000 and Sh300,000 between December 29 and 30, 2014, with no evidence the loans had been approved. Commissioner Rose Macharia said the assembly misused public funds. The report says three MCAs were paid for travels without indicating the purpose of their visits. “Some payments were done without MCAs attendinge meetings,” the report says. It was also established that some MCAs signed allowance vouchers for colleagues who did not attend meetings. The assembly hired and paid for several services without documents. “There are a number of instances where payments were done without the approval of the accounting officer,” Macharia said. She said some of the anomalies resulted from hiring of personnel unqualified to keep records. Officials of the assembly are being investigated. “At least five suspects have their cases ongoing in court,” Macharia said. The report said revenue collection was weak. Officials exploited manual revenue collection system loopholes to siphon funds — by not giving recepts, issuing parallel or unofficial revenue receipts and stealing. The county was asked to ensure financial officers indicate dates against their signatures on bank reconciliation statements. “The purpose of this report is to enable the county government offer better services. The recommendations will help in dealing with loss of funds,” Macharia said. Deputy Governor Hamilton Orata said the county was partnering with EACC to fight corruption. “We want to uphold our integrity. Our collaboration with EACC will enable us seal the loopholes,” Orata said. EACC has already filed a recovery suit in court against assembly clerk Kephas Otieno who was found to have paid Sh26.2 million to his wife Everline Awino for services not rendered. The agency said the two colluded to defraud the assembly. Awino’s account has been frozen.     