If the letter had surfaced on the eve of April 1, it would have been treated as a hoax. Coming when it did, it fits in the genre of fake news. But it is neither of these. The letter is an attempt to sanitise abuse of public office. It is an insult to victims of devolved corruption. Coming from a public watchdog whose mandate is to fight corruption, there is no other way of explaining it than a crude display of conflict of interest. Right-thinking people who have read the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission letter of September 19 to Homa Bay governor Cyprian Awiti are baffled. Attempts to authenticate its validity failed. The EACC is going for pittances wasted on wheelbarrows and air tickets instead of addressing mega cases of corruption. The official indifference robs taxpayers of hope for devolution. President Uhuru Kenyatta must devolve the war on corruption. The letter has been trending for a week now, with cynical comments from people who feel cheated. Photocopies of the same letter are in circulation in Homa Bay county. Whoever leaked the letter to the public is passing a message that needs decoding. Whoever wrote the letter bearing the commission CEO’s signature is hiding something. The showstopper paragraph congratulates the governor for his “gallant efforts in fighting corruption”. The letter says, “Thank you for your support in the fight against corruption and unethical conduct.” In March last year two accountability activists, out of their conviction that corruption is undermining the development of Homa Bay, sued the county leadership. Michael Kojo Otieno and Samora Michael Alosi sued the county government, the treasury, secretary, Water executive, county assembly, and the Attorney General. Although the EACC was duly served as a respondent in the case, which was heard before Justice Hellen Omondi at the High Court in Homa Bay, Integrity Centre did not respond to the public interest case. The petitioners cited numerous cases of corruption, abuse of office and breaches of procurement procedures. The two activists were reacting to the EACC’S failure to act on corruption in Homa Bay. Two years later, the EACC is complimenting the leadership of Homa Bay for “fighting corruption and unethical conduct’. There is no evidence of this gallantry. The Kojo-Samoro suit papers, which were served on the EACC and the AG, cited many cases where the public may have lost millions of shillings in fraudulent tenders. They include the bungled ‘agri-city’ conduit, and a patch-up of county roads, among many others. The EACC can verify these allegations. It is paid to do so. Congratulating the Homa Bay leadership for fighting corruption is a joke gone too far. The agri-city, which included constructing 6,000 middle-class residential houses in the village, was initially projected to cost Sh560 billion. The county’s allocation for the project was hidden in an amorphous account named ‘County Investment Fund’. There was an initial allocation of over Sh1 billion in 2013-14. The amount was later revised to Sh800 million and given vote number 3111013. The county again purported to provide ‘Revised Estimates 2013-14’. The funds, which had been allocated for the County Investment Fund, were added and placed in two different departments: ‘Finance and Economic Planning’ (Sh689,224,459 ), and ‘Office of the Governor’ (Sh316,177,032 ). The EACC investigated the issue, but its report is gathering dust. Then there is the Kadongo-Gendia road, which consumed Sh2.4 billion for about 30km yet the entire road of 204.5km was supposed to cost Sh3.389 billion. From the agreement between the county government and the contractor, MS Oasis Group International, the entire payment was made. This project proceeded against the advice of Kenya Roads Authority engineers. The road is incomplete, and wearing out in places.The EACC can verify this fact today, which the Auditor General has raised many times. The governor may be a “gallant fighter of corruption and unethical conduct” in the eyes of EACC executives, but he is surrounded by cartels. The governor has acknowledged the existence of this cartel in public.