That’s not
necessarily a bad thing; in an ideal world, the people’s interests can
adequately and most assuredly be taken care of in the hands of good elected
representatives. The problem, however, is we hardly ever have such leaders. Which begs the
question, why have elected representatives at all? And the answer is a simple,
because the alternative is worse. As Winston
Churchill once said, “Democracy is the worst form of government in the world,
except all those other forms that have been tried from time to time.” Indeed,
many societies have practiced some form of democracy over the centuries, the best
example having originated in ancient Greece, where the world's first working
democracy was established in the Greek city-state of Athens, around 508 BCE. The direct
democracy system the Greeks came up with, however, proved ineffective and impractical
besides being discriminatory against women, among others. So over time, the
system was restructured to one where citizens chose a smaller subset of
individuals to represent them in voting on all issues. This was an early form
of what we now call representative democracy; one in which citizens elect one
of them to represent them in the local, county or national government. Even as
democracy flourished over the centuries, however, another form of government
known as totalitarianism emerged in the late 1920s, when Italian dictator
Benito Mussolini coined the term “totalitario” to characterize a form of
government that theoretically permits no individual freedom and seeks to
subordinate all aspects of individual life to the authority of the state. As Musolini put
it, “… all within the state, none outside the state, none against the state.” Those old
enough know we had a good doze of this type of government immediately after
independence through Moi era before it was resoundingly rejected in 1992 but
nothing compared to the master practitioners of this absolute and oppressive
single-party government such as the Soviet Union under Joseph Stalin, Nazi Germany
under Adolf Hitler, the People’s Republic of China under Mao Zedong, and North
Korea under the Kim dynasty inflicted upon their people. However, even
though Kenyans gained more individual freedoms following 1992 reintroduction of
multi parties and even more following the promulgation of the new Constitution
in 2010, we’re still a far-cry from having a true representative democracy to
the extent each presidential election save for 2002 has been stolen in varying
degrees of chaos, destruction of property and murder. Add to that the
unprecedented levels of crippling graft that has all but a few Kenyans barely
making it, suffering or simply wallowing in endless poverty, then you have a
recipe for things to explode which is precisely what President Uhuru Kenyatta
and Raila Odinga saw and wisely decided to agree on the handshake. The handshake
not only diffused tension in the country and set us on the path to healing and
more unity, it was an apt reminder even when left to their own devices,
politicians can, indeed, do the right thing notwithstanding the whims of those
around or close to them. The Building
Bridges initiative underway is intended to implement the handshake objectives
and it’s inescapable having a referendum to fix the Constitution. During the
drafting of the current Constitution there were disagreements over how much
power should be vested in the President. In previous drafts, those who feared a
concentration of power in the President added provisions for European-style
power-sharing between the President and the Prime Minister. However, the final
draft retained sweeping powers for the Head of State. We need to
revisit this power distribution grid and establish the European-style power
sharing between the President and a Prime Minister as we should have had in
2010 but for stiff opposition from very short-sighted politicians. Couple that
with slashing the number of counties by half, eliminating totally superfluous
and even useless seats in the national assembly, while doing away with national
electoral board such as the useless to many IEBC doing so would certainly set
as on the right track to final liberation. Samuel Omwenga is a legal analyst and political
commentator in the United States