IEBC Chairman Wafula Chebukati has embarked
on a purge of top officials a week after former CEO Ezra Chiloba was sent
packing. The commission has written to over 25 staff
allegedly implicated in questionable expenditures amounting to Sh4.6 billion during
last year’s two elections. They are required to explain their roles in
the expenditures queried in a controversial internal audit ordered by Chebukati
early this year. According to a separate report by Auditor
General Edward Ouko, the commission cannot account for up to Sh9.2 billion for
various contracts it awarded in ten months last year. The letters signed by acting CEO Marjan Hussein Marjan, himself an experienced auditor,
has triggered apprehension that the fate of some staff associated with Chiloba is
sealed. Read: Sacked Ezra Chiloba guilty of gross misconduct, breached State laws - Chebukati Chebukati has publicly stated that the
internal audit report — which was disputed by three commissioners who quit
earlier this year —has already been sent to the EACC and the Directorate of
Public Prosecutions with a view to further investigating, indicting and
punishing the culprits. “Those
who were involved in inflating the cost of elections, whoever they are, whether
they are staff, commissioners or even myself, they should be arrested,” Chebukati
said in Makueni on Tuesday. Among those who have been issued with letters is Ann
Njeri Nderitu, the manager for Electoral Training, who is now the acting
Registrar of Political Parties. She is among the applicants for the lucrative job left by Lucy Ndung’u. The internal report had adversely implicated
the directorates of supply chain management, finance, ICT, voter registration and election
operations as well as legal and public affairs. The ICT directorate was headed by James Muhati while
Immaculate Kassait was responsible for voter registration and electoral operations. Praxedes Tororey who headed the legal and
public affairs department resigned immediately after elections and has since
landed a job at the Independent Policing Oversight Authority (IPOA). Sources familiar with the IEBC intrigues told the
Star that most of the senior managers issued with letters
were members of the various tender evaluation committees or the inspection and
acceptance committees constituted by Chiloba. Chiloba, who protested his sacking last week
as a witchhunt, declined to appear before the commissioners’ disciplinary committee
on October 11 to answer audit queries arguing that they were already biased. He
questioned how he could be held responsible for decisions taken by committees
or individual staff and accused the three commissioners of stage managing an “audit
to justify their end.” He said the commission had denied him access
to the documents he needed to explain the audit queries and participating in the
proceedings was a mere formality. “The commission proceeded to frame the issues
raised in the internal audit as disciplinary issues leading to a show case
letter. It is through the show cause letter that I saw the internal audit
report for the first time,” he wrote. Read: CEO Chiloba suspended, IEBC in chaos CULPABLE At the time of the elections last year, IEBC
had 9 directors and 17 managers. Yesterday, the commission’s communication and public affairs
manager confirmed that indeed letters had been dispatched but denied that it means
the recipients are culpable. “The letters are
occasioned by the internal audit. Its a standard administrative procedure to ask staff to explain any gaps
identified,” Andrew Limo told the Star. He went on: “It helps the strengthening of financial
controls and effectively responds to external audit including the Parliamentary
Accounts Committee. It does not necessarily convey culpability on those asked
to explain.” In her end of assignment report after fleeing to the
US, ex-Commissioner Roselyne Akombe said election years are a harvest season at IEBC,
with many tales of how procurement evaluation committees make a killing. “There
was a running joke that the only meetings which commission staff would attend
on time were the tender evaluation committee meetings. The trend is the same
when it comes to tenders at the constituency level,” Akombe wrote. She concludes that “there are several accusations
bordering on violations of procurement laws that can only be addressed through
thorough independent investigations.” The internal report reviewed 31 contracts the commission
entered into during the August 8 polls and repeat presidential poll on October
26, all worth Sh6.2 billion. However, of the tenders that were reviewed, the
auditors led by Obadiah Keitany said they could not provide an assurance that
the taxpayer got value for money in ten contracts worth Sh4.6 billion. “This was largely
due to acquisition of goods or services at exaggerated prices and lack of
market survey reports, among other factors,” the report reads in part. Among the issues noted in the audit is the
overpricing of KIEMS kits during the fresh presidential election. During the general election, French firm Safran
Identity and Security was paid Sh4.1 billion for the supply, delivery,
installation, testing and commissioning of the KIEMS kits. However, during the repeat vote, the same firm was
paid Sh2.5 billion for support during the presidential race. “The cost during
the fresh presidential election represented 60 per cent of the cost during the
general election. This was found to be on the higher side considering that the
general election involved acquisition of hardware, configuration, training and
logistics while fresh presidential election involved purchase of a minimum number
of hardware,” the report states. See also: Repeat polls to cost Sh12bn as IEBC retreats A review of the itemised cost for instance
revealed that the cost of fresh presidential election day support was Sh443.8
million, almost twice the amount spent during the general election when there
were elections in six positions. The audit committee also noted that the training cost
went higher in the repeat vote by Sh82.5 million. The commission had spent Sh181.9 million in the
general election but paid 264.4 million during the repeat vote for training. The audit team also fingered Chiloba and team for
paying Sh249.3 million for the supply, installation and support of the IEBC
primary and secondary data centre equipment. The initial budget was only Sh130 million, meaning
the contract amount shot up by 92 per cent. But despite paying millions, the audit committee
noted that the data centre was not available during the election. “Full installation
and commissioning of the primary and secondary data centre equipment was not
complete by 12 July 2017. In other words, the data centre was not ready by the
time the general election was held...the accounting officer/directorate of
supply chain management should explain reasons for the delayed implementation,”
the audit concludes. The audit also questioned the award of a Sh1,655,756
tender for printing of branded caps and t-shirts and bags to the Kenya
Literature Bureau. KLB which specialises in publishing of reading
materials subcontracted another firm, Crystal Brands Communication. “It’s therefore
clear that this may have been a scheme to circumvent the procurement process by
purporting to resort to government-to-government engagements while the goods
were actually sub-contracted to Crystal Brands Communication,” the audit says.  Click here for
the latest political news