Africa chamber of commerce leaders will set up an advisory team to formulate protection measures for Small and Micro Enterprises (SMEs) against unfair competition from China. In their declaration made at the end of a four day forum in Nairobi, the team said that while Chinese investors have helped spur economic growth in the continent, there is need to protect local enterprises in order to grow intra-Africa trade. Kenya National Chamber of Commerce and Industry (KNCCI) chairman Kiprono Kittony who read the resolutions said they came up with strategies guiding the Africa-China partnership. “Chinese have been key growth drivers in trading and investment, however, we also need to work towards policies to protect our local businesses. Africa-China policy will be based on shared information across countries,” Kiprono said. He said Africa should also tap into diaspora remittances and capital from global pension schemes to boost intra-Africa trade which dropped to Sh5.79 trillion ($57.3 billion) in 2017 from Sh9.42 trillion ($93.1 billion) in 2013. Diaspora remittances to Kenya increased by 16.9 per cent to $254 million in May 2018 from $217 million recorded in April, according to Central Bank. Foreign inflows account for four per cent of GDP. The inflow to East Africa region is about Sh354 billion ($3.5 billion) annually. “There are huge piles of cash from pension funds and insurance companies in the west looking at Africa to increase their returns,” Kiprono said. He said Kenya and Africa need to look beyond their nationalities, governments and aid to do business with the rest of the region and the world. The forum said SMEs have the potential to drive the intra-Africa trade that currently stands at 11.6 per cent, compared to European Union trade at 64 per cent and Latin American at 40 per cent. World Chamber Federation president Peter Mihok said SMEs need strong business representation that would bring a change in the trade policies. “Africa has reached its full potential to trade, but there is need for strong integration and liberation making the business aware of the existing opportunities,” he said. The forum proposed the Kenyan Chamber patron President Uhuru Kenyatta to become a Goodwill Ambassador of African Chambers of Commerce to spearhead the agenda of the chambers.