A Lion, the Fox and the Ass are all hunting together. They all gathered a huge amount of food and now had to decide how to divide it. The Lion asked the Ass to divide the food. The Ass chose to divide the potions equally. This made the Lion, the king of beasts, angry and with his paw, he killed the Ass. The Lion then asked the Fox to divide the food. The Fox wasted no time. He quickly gave a huge heap to the Lion and only kept a small portion to himself. The Lion asked the Fox, “Who taught you to divide so fairly?” to which the The Fox replied, “I learned from the Ass,” More often than not, we watch as others fail in life but these failures ought to serve as a lesson for the future. When institutions fail, we should be working to ensure those failures are used to prepare for the future and as fast as possible. The 2017 election was very long and difficult, and there were many instances that the tension almost destroyed this great nation. Some of the unfortunate moments were the bare-knuckled and public fight between the IEBC chairman and the CEO. There was also the resignation of IEBC commissioner Roselyn Akombe and the rumours before the election of the resignation of the chairman. And just as we thought the dust had settled, three other commissioners resigned this year. We must acknowledge that if anything catastrophic had happened to the IEBC, or if the institution had been sabotaged, as was hoped by some quarters, then the nation would have descended into chaos. We are at a critical point in our nation where we have goodwill from both sides of the political divide, peace, and a friendship between President Uhuru Kenyatta and Raila Odinga. This is a perfect time to capitalise on this goodwill and critically assess the merits and demerits of the electoral agency. This is the time to make the difficult decisions to overhaul and transform the IEBC before we get into 2022 politics mood. We should also benchmark on other electoral institutions and enact laws to protect the nation in worst-case scenarios. We must ensure the electoral processes are foolproof to enable us to have elections that do not lead to unnecessary challenges. Last year, Kenyans went to the ballot twice for the presidential election, mainly due to IEBC weaknesses. The Supreme Court ruled that the IEBC failed to arrest illegalities and irregularities on August 8. A year later, the IEBC should have given us an evaluation report on this verdict by the Supreme Court, indicating the lessons learnt. But all we are being treated to is an unending power play between the commissioners and the secretariat. The IEBC is a critical institution that must be supported at all cost but one that must respect the rule of law in its internal operations. If those placed in charge of these operations are not ready to work in the interest of the country, they should humbly exit and allow capable people to do the work. At this moment, Parliament’s Justice and Legal Affairs Committee also needs to take charge and work on helping the country sort out the mess at IEBC. A stakeholder’s forum spearheaded by this committee needs to be urgently put in place to look at the legal structure. This should be done with the aim of tightening all the loose ends as identified by the Supreme Court. Once this is done, the committee should look at the internal workings of the IEBC and review all operational manuals to fit into a clear path of reforms. The IEBC is too important to be left to a few individuals inside the agency to continue going at each other as we have witnessed.