Why would the new African leaders
indulge in luxuries and power, while the masses they led were confined to
squalor in his native Congo Brazzaville? This, of Boukaka’s songs,
was most popular on radio in the 1970s and remains to date. I have great qualms that
Voice of Kenya radio presenters knew they were playing an outlaw in the country
of its origin. The emphatic climax of the
song posed three questions:  “I thought
the Colonizers left? Who then became independent? Ayee Africa where is your
independence?” His song earned him silence
on February 23, 1972. Buokaka was executed on
orders of Joachim Opango in the crisis following a coup d’etat that failed to
topple Marien Ngouabi.  His voice will
continue to haunt our present context in Kenya and Africa, as long as the
benefits of our freedom are not realised. Time has revealed the
yawning gulf between the independence aspirations our forbearers struggled for
and the realities we have experienced. The promissory note of
freedom and prosperity has been un-honored.  Majority of Kenyans could not cash it.  To paraphrase American civil rights icon Rev
(Dr.) Martin Luther King Jnr., it has been returned marked, “insufficient funds”. What was the point for the
sacrifice for self-rule, if wananchi (ordinary Kenyans) would
be subjugated to oppressive poverty? Whose independence was
this? On the other hand, the 1959 Cuban
revolution that brought Fidel Castro to leadership transformed the tiny
Caribbean Island of 12 million people. Castro created a socialist
programme that focused on transforming the lives of Cubans. Consequently, they
provided a completely free education uniquely adopted to Cuban needs, from
nursery to university. Douglas Kellner’s, in Ernesto
‘Che” Guevara (World Leaders Past and Present), explains how prior to 1959,
the official literacy rate for Cuba was between 60 per cent and 76 per cent. This was occasioned by lack
of education access in the rural areas and instructors. But the Cuban government
under Fidel Castro, beginning in 1961, focused on the countryside and
constructed schools, trained new educators and taught the predominantly
illiterate peasants (guajiros). At the end of the campaign,
the national literacy rate rose to 96 per cent in 1989 and is 99 per cent). This became the foundation
of the development for their people. Again, it is the citizens
who volunteered to achieve this. According to the World
Health Organization, Cuba’s health care system is an example for all countries
of the world. It is recognised for its
excellence and efficiency. Responsible for this
success are family physicians, their nurses and other health workers, labouring
on delivering primary care and preventive services to their cluster of patients
(1000 patients per physician in urban areas). It is a very localised
system, since the patients and their caregivers live in the same community. Their healthcare is
premised on the preventive health system, which has produced positive results. As a result, Cuba’s
vaccination rates are among the highest in the world. Their life expectancy of 78
years is exceedingly impressive for a developing country. The infant mortality rate
in Cuba has fallen from more than 80 per 1000 live births in the 1950s to less
than 5 per 1000. The improved health
outcomes are also be attributed to the improvements in nutrition and education,
which are key variables that address the social determinants of health. Today, health education is
part of the mandatory school curriculum. Despite their extremely
limited resources and the dramatic impact caused by the American blockade and
economic sanctions for more than half a century, Cuba has managed to guarantee
access to care for all segments of the population and obtain results similar to
those of the most developed nations. Cuba’s experience mocks our
post-independence achievements. Our literacy levels are the
most concerning. The key findings of Kenya’s
national adult literacy survey in 2007 indicated that more than one in
three Kenyan adults are illiterate. Survey findings showed
that on average, 38.5 per cent of the Kenyan adult population is
illiterate, almost where Cuba was in 1959. “Despite major increases in enrollment in educational institutions at all levels, still more than one-third
of all adult Kenyans have not gone beyond primary school,” reads part of the
report.  Put differently, 2.4 million
Kenyans have no formal education and another 16,252,000 only have primary-level
education.  What did our leaders do
once in power? What can explain the
obscene affluence of a few in the sea of poor Kenyans?  INEQUALITY IN OUR ECONOMY  A United Kingdom-based New
World Wealth survey (2014), conducted over a span of five years, exposed a grim
picture of wealth distribution in Kenya.  It showed that 46 per cent of the country’s
43.1 million people live below the poverty line, surviving on less than Sh172
($2) a day. The report further
states: “Nearly two-thirds of Kenya’s Sh4.3 trillion ($50 billion) economy
is controlled by a tiny clique of 8,300 super-wealthy
individuals, highlighting the huge inequality between the rich and the
poor”. Inequality is
immoral. Moreover, the proportions
we have here kills. This appalling situation is
a creation of political leadership bereft of morally guiding philosophy. Leadership is viewed in
transactional and contractual terms. This may explain why we are confronted on
a daily basis with the grand scandal of greed, corruption, and looting of
public or state resources. Unless our leaders adopt a
covenantal approach that obliges leadership to better the lives of ordinary
citizens, we will be stuck in this mire. The depth of our problem is
explicit, particularly when the government policies lean more towards
sustaining the entrepreneurs, local and foreign than solving the citizens'
problems. President Uhuru Kenyatta’s
decision to invite 100 Cuban doctors to serve Kenyans speaks to us with a
forked tongue. We are grateful that these specialists
are contributing to ease the pressing health care needs in our hospitals. However, it should concern
us gravely that the government refuses to take the arduous task to develop our
own health at least to Cuban levels. Why import their doctors
while adopting their system is within our reach?  With limited
resources, the Cuban healthcare system has solved problems that ours has yet to
address. Even though their
healthcare system addresses those problems in ways that grew out of Cuba's
peculiar political and economic history, the system they have created — with a
physician for everyone, an early focus on prevention, and clear attention to
community health — may inform progress in other countries as well. With the strict economic
embargo, Cuba has developed its own pharmaceutical industry and now not only
manufactures most of the medications in its basic pharmacopeia, besides
investment in developing biotechnology expertise to become competitive with
advanced countries. There is an upswell of
discontent among young Kenyans from across the political divide. They have lost faith in
reforms or action by political leaders to remedy the situation.  WORKING AT REVOLUTION  The building of bridges –
the now famous handshake between President Kenyatta and Raila Odinga — is
dismissed as a political gimmick, slowing down the country’s transformation. Revolution is what they are
working at. I doubt that they have thought through the end product of their
craving.  Since political leaders have failed Kenyans in this respect,
can religious leaders provide alternative leadership and nudge the country
towards the poor who are perpetually left out? Clergy and theologians in
Latin America were on the vanguard for change in addressing the grievances of
the poor and transformation of their society.  During the Conference of
Latin American Bishops in 1968 in Medellin, Colombia, the bishops agreed that the Church
should take “a preferential option for the poor.” One of the architects of
this movement was Father Gustavo Gutierrez, a Roman Catholic priest
from Peru, who acknowledged to have been inspired by the Cuban revolution of
1959. He laid out clearly the
concepts he referenced during this talk in 1968 in his 1971 magnum opus, “A
Theology of Liberation.”  Consequently,
liberation theology emerged as a new way of “being human and
Christian”. In proposing a
“preferential option for the poor,” the Church was encouraged to extend its
work to directly address the struggles of the impoverished and to work
specifically to ameliorate “physical and spiritual oppression”. Rather than small
ineffective reforms, liberation theology supported work towards systemic change
and even the possibility of revolution as a means of freeing the poor from
oppression. While violence was not encouraged,
it was justified as a possible last resort or necessity of the
revolution.  We must credit liberation theology for changing the role
of the Church in Peru and all of Latin America forever. By giving a voice to the
impoverished, liberation theology held the Church accountable for the welfare
of the lower class, recognizing the essential role of social justice in
Christian teachings. The Christians demanded that the Church does more
than simple charity work towards a more active role in the promotion of
systemic change. This movement realigned the
power structures of Latin American society and showed that religion could
deliver change in the society in forcing the hands of politics.  Where are
the Kenyan theologians to equally develop a theology that would focus the
Church away from solely eternal salvation to the more pressing necessity of
earthly liberation of the poor from oppression and suffering? The genius of the religious
figures like Gustavo Gutiérrez was in integrating the liberation of the working
class into Biblical interpretation.  There is a possibility to
reorient the policies of our nation towards the vulnerable. It should take all to
achieve this. Unless we sincerely address
the dire challenge of the poor, we must get ready for chaos.  The
writer is a priest at All Saints Cathedral Diocese, Nairobi. The views
expressed here are his own.  (canonomondi08@gmail.com) 