Is Nyali MP Mohamed Ali having regrets going by what he shared with activist Boniface Mwangi? The MP, whose association with Deputy President William Ruto has earned him an ‘errant boy’ tag, gives meaning to the term falling from grace. Before joining politics, he was known for his hard-hitting expose Jicho Pevu which is now satirised as Jicho Pesa, because of deserting the high moral grounds he stood for when he was a journalist. Corridors has learnt from his close associates that the man might be out to win sympathy following a barrage of critics on his course of politics. The man has also been staring at fast falling popularity ratings in his own Nyali constituency with some of his campaigners and financiers withdrawing their support. ***** Did a former chairman of a defunct institution storm another public institution in Nairobi’s Community area and declare himself the new chairman? A source at the institution has told corridors the CEO and his staff were shocked when the man showed up on Friday morning and demanded he be given the keys to the office of the chairman as he was now the new boss. The process of replacing the chairman of the institution has begun and the senior officials were at a loss on how to convince the man “it could have been a case of mistaken offices”. It is said the man left the office vowing to come back again. ***** Kisumu residents are questioning why a well-known money launderer better known as “wash wash” is under tight police security. The man who operates in Kisumu and Nairobi usually drives a “customised” white V8 while in the lakeside city. While in Kisumu, the man is provided with two armed police officers. When he leaves Kisumu, the officers are redeployed. He replaced the customised plate when going out of Kisumu with locals questioning why such a person is under heavy security despite his alleged money laundering activities. Residents are now wondering why the Flying Squad unit known to trail vehicles with customised plates is not “keen” on this particular car. Locals want Interior CS Fred Matiang’i and Inspector General Joseph Boinnet to probe the matter. ***** Friday’s win of a case at the Court of Appeal that gives a nod to Central Bank of Kenya to print new-look currency has gotten top politicians sweating. Reason? The overnight millionaires and billionaires known for their selective philanthropy are a worried lot and in limbo on what they will do with the millions of stashed hard cash. Some were overheard plotting to use charitable organisations to clean the money. Click here for
the latest political news