Nominated MCA Emily Oduor was elected on Tuesday to the Speaker’s panel, replacing Imara Daima ward representative Kennedy Obuya. The speaker’s panel includes members who can preside over the assembly in the absence of the speaker. Majority leader Abdi Guyo moved the motion to replace Obuya with Oduor as the chairperson of the panel. Obuya thanked the house for giving him the opportunity to serve but said he had not received any official communication from his minority leader, Elias Otieno, and minority chief whip Peter Imwatok. He also said he had been discharged from the powers and privilege committee. “Before a member’s discharge is effective, there is supposed to be a communication in writing for the member. I am not complaining that I am being discharged, but I have a right to plea,” Obuyo said. Guyo told the house that two weeks ago acting Speaker Chege Mwaura gave a notice of the matter on the floor of the house. He said it was not right for a member to mislead the house. Deputy Speaker John Kamangu confirmed that the notice was received by the assembly business committee. Minority leader Elias Otieno maintained that Obuya had been dismissed from the panel. “I take my time to act but when I act, that’s the way it is. Whether you got a letter or not, once the whip dewhips a member of a committee, you are automatically discharged,” Otieno said. The majority of the MCAs supported the motion and described Oduor as fit for the position. Guyo, described Emily as an intelligent and focused woman who will be of great assistance to the acting speaker in terms of leadership. Umoja One MCA Mark Mugambi said it was long over due for a woman to be elected to the speaker’s panel. Utawala ward rep Patrick Karani described Emily as a woman of caliber who has made a great contributer to the budget and appropriation committee. Women’s caucus chairlady Doris Kanario supported the motion and said that as member of the trade committee, Emily has been pushing the agenda and is a great contributor during discussions. “I am proud that a woman has made it to the panel. Emily is a leader, she is like a pillar and therefore I believe she will represent women,”said nominated MCA Millicent Jagera. Nominated MCA Mary Arivitsa was the only member who opposed the motion, saying her party whip should have first served Obuya with the notice before removing him from the panel. Last week, Arivitsa was also served with a notice from minority whip Peter Imwatok, notifying her that she had been dismissed from the transport committee. She was accused of misconduct in the assembly and allegedly insulting Guyo.