Slain human rights lawyer Willie Kimani drove through Nairobi streets on the last three days to his murder. A witness yesterday told the court Kimani’s car was seen on Mombasa Road moments after he had been hijacked. The vehicle was seen at Cabanas heading to the city centre with only the driver inside. Earlier, the car had three occupants believed to have been Kimani, his driver Joseph Muiruri and client Josephat Mwenda. “The image shows a different occupant in the driver’s seat,” expert witness Kennedy Mwadime said. He took the court through the Intelligence Video Surveillance of Kimani’s movement on the three days prior to his kidnapping. In a PowerPoint presentation, Mwadime showed the vehicle, a KBX 126C, in the city from June 21 to June 23, 2016 when Kimani went missing. The car had two other people believed to have been Muiruri and Mwenda. In those three days, the vehicle was seen on Waiyaki Way, Globe Roundabout, Haile Selassie Avenue and Lang’ata Road. On the day the three went missing, the car was seen on Mbagathi Road near Brookhouse School heading towards Rongai where it is believed they went to pick up Mwenda. Read: Willie Kimani murder: Diver narrates horror of finding bodies floating in River Athi Mwadime said he could not tell who was in the back seat because it was not properly captured in the system. The vehicle was later seen on Mombasa Road near the Syokimau Railway Station heading towards Mlolongo at 7am. Hours later, at around noon, the surveillance cameras picked up the vehicle on Mombasa Road around Mlolongo driving toward Nairobi. That was around the same time Kimani went missing after leaving the Mavoko Law Courts. Mwadime said the driver was different from the ones who were init when the vehicle was heading to Mlolongo. “He is a light skinned person,” he said. More on this: Cops charged with Willie Kimani murder want LSK, IJM stopped from probing witnesses It was the last time the cameras captured the vehicle. A week later, the bodies of Kimani, Muiruri and Mwenda were found at Oldonyo Sabuk River stashed in gunny bags. They were mutilated. Four Administration Police officers Fredrick Leliman, StephenCheburet, Sylvia Wanjiku, Leonard Mwangi and police informer Peter Ngugi have been charged with the muder. They have all denied the charges. On Monday, Mwadime said the communication control command has intelligence video surveillance, automatic number plate recognition solution and fourth generation police mobile phones are capable of capturing and restoring critical information. Click here for the latest political news