Last year, amid election tensions, Kenya had the highest inflation in five years of eight per cent. This coincided with its highest suicide rate of 421 in every 100,000 people. This year, increased taxation by a government burdened with debt has further raised the cost of living. And as times get harder, more suicides are being reported. With less money in circulation, businesses are crumbling, marriages are shattering and frustration is mounting to lethal levels. For instance, James Nderitu, 40, has attempted suicide three times since last year after his properties were auctioned by two banks for defaulting on loans. He terms financial stress “nerve-racking”. Nderitu’s experience reads like a fairy tale extracted from a riches-to-rags storybook. In 2013, Nderitu was a successful businessman, running four wholesale shops in Kiambu, Nairobi and Nakuru. This was before he picked interest in county government tenders, which ended up ruining his life. “A friend of mine lured me into the tender business. I ended up taking a total of Sh20 million from two local banks to supply construction materials for various government projects. Only an eighth of what I supplied has been paid for so far,” Nderitu said. Delayed payment saw him default on loans, forcing creditors to auction his shops, three pieces of land in Nairobi and Kiambu, and a lorry last year. The financial loss made Nderitu turn to alcohol to drown his sorrows. To add insult to injury, his wife of 10 years deserted their matrimonial home together with their two children when he became abusive. “I took poison in July last year on the day my wife left with children, but neighbours rushed me to a Kiambu hospital. I repeated the act twice unsuccessfully in November, when the bar where I used to drink at confiscated my furniture over unpaid bills,” Nderitu said. His siblings and cousins helped him jump-start a retail business in February after intensive counselling. They also helped him reunite with his wife and children. LOSS, DEBTS AND FEES Others have not been so lucky, in a trend especially affecting young and middle-aged men in Kenya. In January, quarry broker Patrick Ndiritu murdered his wife and three children before committing suicide in Malaba estate, Juja, after a former classmate conned him of Sh1 million. Ndiritu was reportedly tricked to raise Sh1.5 million to secure a tender that could have earned him Sh4.5 million. This prompted him to borrow up to Sh1 million from relatives, promising to refund after securing the tender. The tender, however, did not materialise. Ndiritu sank into depression as those he borrowed from came calling. Relatives and neighbours described him as a calm and hardworking man, whom they least thought could take his life. In another incident last month, a 22-year-old man in Kakamega county hanged himself on a tree by the roadside in Ekero, Mumias town. He left behind a suicide note, blaming his brother and sisters for not assisting him financially. This month, men aged between 19 and 35 years took their lives separately in Migori, Kakamega and Kapsabet. The one in Migori county, aged 34, left a note indicating he killed himself to escape dozens of debts he had accumulated. In Kakamega, a 32-year-old father of one poisoned his two-year-old daughter before committing suicide over joblessness. While in Kapsabet, a young man, 19, ended his life after his parents failed to raise his college fees. AUCTIONS ON THE RISE The Star conducted a 24-hour Twitter poll from October 16-17, seeking to establish the main causes of suicide among young men in the country. The survey attracted 1,030 respondents. Sixty per cent of respondents listed financial stress as the major factor, followed by love-related stress at 19 per cent. Although no recently reported suicide cases in Kenya are linked to mental illness, 15 per cent of respondents in the Star poll ranked mental disorder as the third-leading cause of suicide cases. The remaining six per cent accounted for other factors. A spot check on local dailies shows that the number of auction advertisements is on rise, with each paper running a minimum of two pages of advertisements per day, mostly targeting pieces of lands and vehicles, key collaterals for consumer credit in the country. Vision Root Auctioneers CEO John Njue says they now conduct at least two auctions per week, up from two per month last year, to recover especially vehicles from loan defaulters on behalf of financial institutions. “Most of these defaulters took loan facilities to supply to county governments, which are now dodging them on payments. I pity them, because lenders are also caught in the harsh economic situation in the country. We are left with no option but to repossess property,” Njue said. He added that auctioneers are encountering minimal resistance from borrowers. Usually, they go to court to protect their property, but now most of them are surrendering hopelessly to avoid additional costs. The 2018 economic survey by the Kenya National Bureau of Statistics showed suicide cases rose by 58 per cent between 2008 and 2017 to hit an all-time high of 421 in 100,000. Although it did not classify causes of suicides, there seems to be a close relation between suicides and the country’s Gross Domestic Product. For instance, Kenya recorded a GDP growth of 8.4 per cent in 2010, the highest in 41 years. The same year it recorded lowest suicide rate of 75. Last year, Kenya’s economy expanded at 4.9 per cent, the lowest in five years since 2012. This coincided with the highest suicide rate, of 421 in 100,000 people. There is also a close relation between increased suicides, Consumer Purchase Index, inflation rate and loan defaults for the past 10 years. When Kenya had the highest GDP in past 30 years of 8.4 per cent in 2010, it coincided with the lowest inflation rate in the past 10 years of 4.3, lowest CPI and lowest suicide rate. Last year, Kenya had the highest inflation in five years of eight per cent, highest NPL of 10 per cent since 2009, highest CPI of 172.4 since 2006, and highest suicide rate of 421. SUICIDE ‘EASY WAY OUT’ Economist Ongili Raro says the tough economic times herald loss of jobs and businesses. Since most people owe identity to their income, financial strain means loss of lifestyle, friends and their sense of purpose. “SMEs are finding it hard to access credit. Huge lay-offs were witnessed last year. Non-performing loans are now above 12 per cent. The government is not paying suppliers,” Raro said. “Before hopelessness checks in, such people will do anything to block out reality through drug addiction and alcohol. Without a strong support team, suicide is seen as an easy way out.” The economist added that unlike women, who tend to have a strong social support group, men are deeply individual and proud. They are also predominantly breadwinners. Closely related to suicides, Raro said, is a rise in social ills — theft, murder and prostitution (sponsor syndrome). Family counsellor Dr Kinyanjui Ng’ang’a of the Sense 101 Life Club agreed that many Kenyans are severely depressed by the tough economic times. Ng'ang'a explains that while women derive their identity from who they love, men derive their identity from what they do. When men consistently fail in the market place, their self-esteem gets injured. The situation is worsened by unhealthy competition to outdo peers and inability to handle failure. “While stress is a normal and an undeniable human emotion, depression is a disorder. Depression is sustained stress, sadness, anger and loss of interest in important stuff. Depression is the breeding ground of suicide,” Ng’ang’a said. To remedy this, he called on young men to derive their value and identity from pursuing purpose, meaning and significance. They should not derive value from things they can lose, like a car, job, business or money. GLOBAL PERSPECTIVE Various studies in the US, Asia and Europe have illustrated a close relationship between suicides and economic growth. For instance, the 2014 study by University of Oxford and the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, linked 100,000 additional economic suicides across Europe and North America to the great recession. According to the study, the tough economic period of 2007-09 saw suicide cases in those regions rise by 4.5 per cent, or 240 suicides more than expected. There were 3,890 suicides in Canada in 2009, or 11.5 per 100,000 people. Those aged 40 to 59 had the highest rates, with men committing suicide at three times the rate of women. “Economic shocks leading to debt, job loss and unemployment can worsen mental health and add to the risk of depression and suicide,” researchers said. “In some ways, suicides are just the tip of the iceberg. The economic crisis can affect mental health in quite profound ways for many individuals,” Aaron Reeves, a post-doctoral researcher at the University of Oxford, said. Researchers added that, much like other public health problems, economic suicides must be approached holistically, with the acknowledgement that social determinants are an effective indicator of suicide risk.