President Uhuru Kenyatta and DP William Ruto have pledged to review their spiritual lives so that they "do not to miss heaven". The two said they have assessed their past lives and realised there is a likelihood they may not make it to paradise. The two were responding to a sermon by Bishop Harrison Ng'ang'a of the Christian Foundation Fellowship Church. The clergyman gave a moving sermon during the burial of legendary Musician Joseph Kamaru in Murang'a. Bishop Ng'ang'a thrilled mourners when elaborating on scriptures in 1 Corinthians 6:9-10. It says: "Or do you not know that the unrighteous will not inherit the kingdom of God? Do not be deceived: neither the sexually immoral, nor idolaters, nor adulterers, nor men who practice homosexuality, nor thieves, nor the greedy, nor drunkards, nor revilers, nor swindlers will inherit the kingdom of God". Bishop Ng'ang'a said many people will be shocked to remain here (earth) when others are going to heaven. "Every person who goes to their neighbours' home behind their back or takes what is not theirs will not see the Kingdom of God. I'm I the one who said this? Have I not read it from the Bible?" he asked as the crowd cheered. In his speech, Uhuru said he turned to Ruto during the sermon to inquire from him whether he was ready for heaven. "Ruto aliniambia kama mahubiri ni kama haya nimesikia yakihubiriwa hapa, imetutia wasi wasi kidogo juu ya safari ya kwenda binguni, kwa sababu inaonekana watu wengi sana watabaki huku," Uhuru said. (Ruto told me the sermon had him worried over the journey to heaven since it seems many people will be left behind) Also read: Don't be misled into politics of money, Uhuru urges Kenyans For his part, Ruto said he was confident that he was on the path to heaven but after the sermon, the DP said "he has now panicked and is ready to review his spiritual journey." "I want to assure the bishop that we shall do everything to ensure we don't miss heaven. We shall do all the things that you have said so that we can be on the list," he added. ODM leader Raila Odinga also contributed to this, asking politicians not to be comfortable on the smooth highway but to take the rough road that leads to paradise. Read: Hero's send-off for Joseph Kamaru as Uhuru, Raila and Ruto attend burial Click here for the latest political news