Contemplation over the
power of a healthy mental state poured itself all over the globe in the wake of
World Mental Health Day on October 10. Statistics ran through news channels,
revealing how over 800,000 people die due to suicide every year globally, of
which 75 per cent occur in low- and middle-income countries. Moreover, Lady Gaga marked
this year’s observation of the day with an opinion piece terming mental health
an emergency. “By the time you finish reading this, at least six people will have killed themselves around the world,” read the article
co-written with Tedros Adhanom, director-general of the World Health Organisation. Conversation
around mental health care is getting amplified as stakeholders hold forums to
dissect and elaborate mental health. However, the need to walk the talk is
beckoning, lest we lose more lives.  MEETING MENTAL ILLNESS I first met
mental illness in 2008. Munyao, a family friend, took his own life after
strangling his wife, Kaluki. Munyao had been an alcoholic for as long as I
could remember. Four years before his demise (2004), there was a call-out in
our local church to contribute money for his admission at a rehabilitation
centre. In 2006, there was
another call for more contribution to send him to a mental hospital, with the
announcement citing that he had been diagnosed with clinical depression. After
six months at the hospital, he returned home to rumours that Kaluki was having
an affair with the very same pastor who raised funds for his recovery. After a heated argument
about the affair, Munyao tightened a kettle cord across Kaluki’s neck until she
fell on the floor. When he returned home and found her on the floor ice-cold,
he scribbled a note and consumed Rat Rat, the
rodenticide. “God forgot about me, so did my family. What am I living for? This earth
is not a place to be. Goodbye World!” the note read. Janet
Mukami, a sought-after Kenyan fitness trainer, will tell you that she met
mental illness when her brother, Stephen Githehu, was diagnosed with
post-traumatic stress disorder. When he started to withdraw and send suicidal
texts, the family reached out to various authorities in the United States,
where he lived, and Kenya to help check him into a mental hospital. Police said
that unless he does something that calls for his admission, they cannot
involuntarily check him in. In February 2017, Stephen shot himself in his
apartment. Catherine
Kariuki, the mind behind popular blog Fashionable Step Mum,
met mental illness when her step-son, Josiah Kariuki shot himself in the shower
with his father’s gun in May 2017. The Kariukis knew Josiah’s struggles with
depression and had a counsellor on retainer. Globally,
the film industry lost Robin Williams, who hanged himself in his California
home in August 2014. His wife, Susan Williams, said in one of her first
interviews since losing her husband that he had been diagnosed with Parkinson’s
disease three months before he died. The disease affected his mental state, but
it was Dementia with Lewy Bodies (DLB) that probably led him to suicide. Frequently
misdiagnosed, DLB is the second-most common neurodegenerative dementia after
Alzheimer’s and causes fluctuations in mental status, hallucinations and
impairment of motor function. Unfortunately, it was not until after his death
that an autopsy confirmed he had the disease. Susan added that Robin had also
struggled with addiction during his life but had been clean and sober since
2006. The music
industry was robbed of DJ Avicii in April 2018. In a statement released to the
media by his family, they termed him an over-achieving perfectionist who
travelled and worked hard at a pace that led to extreme stress. They further
described his last days as a season of seeking happiness and balance. Suicides
around the world have been attributed to mental disorders and substance abuse.
Evidently, mental disorders are highly prevalent and burdensome across the
globe. This makes mental health a significant contributor to the overall public
health burden, hence integration of mental health into primary care is a
crucial task. Early identification
and effective management are also key to ensuring that people receive the care
they need. Rajneesh Osho, an Indian religious leader, authored a book titled: The
Mind: A beautiful servant, a dangerous master. Osho was
right.  MENTAL HEALTH CARE IN KENYA Statistics
show that the prevalence rate of common mental disorders in Kenya is 10.8 per
cent, with no gender difference. In addition to that, neuropsychiatric
disorders in Kenya are estimated to contribute 5.7 per cent of the global
burden of the disease. Yet, there is only one psychiatrist per 500,000 people.
Higher rates of mental illness are registered in those who were of older age
and those in poor physical health. In May
2016, the Health ministry launched a mental health policy, whose objectives included
reforming the system by addressing issues such as lack of leadership in the
sector. The proposed reforms included appointing a board, increasing funding,
training of service providers, and amplifying public awareness. This was a
laudable commitment but remains unimplemented. Today,
mental health is barely incorporated into Kenya’s primary health care system.
This could explain why the biggest mental health facility in the country, Mathari
Teaching and Referral Hospital, remains understaffed, overcrowded, and
underfunded. The Health ministry permits
primary health care doctors to prescribe psychotherapeutic medicines. Likewise,
official policy enables primary health care nurses to independently diagnose
and treat mental disorders within the primary care system.  HOPES FOR THE FUTURE The sun is
rising above mental health, as the world grows more aware of the need to
address it. The United Kingdom government, for instance, appointed the world’s
first Minister of Suicide Prevention. The appointee, Jackie
Doyle-Price, will lead in prioritising mental health in the UK. She is set to
host the first Global Ministerial Mental Health Summit in London. African
governments should borrow a leaf or two and invest in including mental health
in Africa’s health care systems. Association
between common mental disorders, equity, poverty and socio-economic functioning
are relatively well explored in high income countries. On the contrary, there
have been fewer studies in low and middle-income countries, despite the
considerable burden posed by mental disorders and their potential impact on
development, especially in Africa. Consequently, the gap between what is
urgently needed and what is available to reduce the burden remains very wide in
Africa. With research and comprehensive analysis reports, statistics can be
used to formulate evidence-based policies and expedite informed action. However,
before statistics and policies deliver the silver bullet, we all need to
deliberately provide social support to the people around us. Dr Joanne
Cacciatore, an American advocate for mental health, said it best: “There simply is no pill that can
replace human connection. There is no pharmacy that can fill the need for
compassionate interaction with others. There is no panacea. The answer to human
suffering is both within us and between us.” We need to look out
for each other and introduce mental health into our everyday conversations.  Whitney Mwangi is a global communications specialist and founder
of The Story
Book.