Kisumu chief sergeant-at-arms was yesterday forced to shoot in the air to save his life after chaos broke out in the assembly. George Amayo was forced to fire in the air to scare away a section of MCAs who were baying for his blood after a tussle between MCAs and sergeants-art-arms, as the ward reps resolved not to work with speaker Onyango Oloo. Amayo had walked in the assembly chambers with police officers to assess ‘damaged property’ after commotion in the assembly earlier. The furious MCAs shouted at the officers as soon as they got into the assembly chambers doors, forcing them to retreat. A section of the MCAs then charged, venting their anger at Amayo forcing him to shoot in the air. Amayo was escorted by police officers out of the assembly, as MCAs followed him to the gate. Members of the public watched in dismay. He sought refuge at a guard’s room near the gate. He later jumped out through the window, as members of the public joined in and started throwing stones at him joined by some of their ward representatives. The sergeant-at-arms and some of the MCAs later recorded their statements at Kisumu central police station. The fracas was triggered by an earlier disagreement among MCAs over an adjournment of the assembly by temporary speaker Eric Agola. Agola adjourned the motion after reading the communication from chair, a move the members claimed was illegal. Read: [VIDEO] Gunshots at Kisumu assembly as MCAs, sergeant-at-arms fight Majority leader Kenneth Onyango termed the adjournment unprocedural, saying there was no adjournment motion moved in the assembly. Onyango accused the speaker Oloo of mismanaging the assembly and not supporting the governor’s manifesto “The House must be run by rules and regulations and not like someone’s kioks,” he said. Chief whip Gard Olima alleged that Oloo was sponsoring hooliganism against them, saying they will not work with him. “The speaker has done a lot of ills in the assembly and we have resolved as MCAs not to work with him again because he is hell-bent on mismanaging the assembly by bringing ‘intruders’ and ‘eliminating members’, “ he said. He said they want the speaker to leave office because they have given him time to change and this has bore no fruit. “We are not going to transact any business with Oloo and Amayo in the house, “he added. Kondele MCA Joachim Oketch said it was by grace of God that the bullet did not hit him. See: [VIDEO] Kisumu MCAs in fist fight after rumours of plot to impeach Anyang' Nyong'o Click here for latest political news