Kenya has
been put on the spot for either backtracking or disregarding several
regional and international policies seeking to protect migrants. A report
released today on Free and Safe Migration in East Africa reveals that the
government, for instance, is reluctant to implement crucial regional protocols
aimed at accelerating economic growth and development. The report
by African Center for Migration and Society in collaboration with Open Society
Foundations notes that strict work restrictions for migrants including crackdown
on illegal migrants have increased irregular migration. It discloses
that work restrictions through limitations such as access to work permits by foreign
nationals looking for employment have 'increased irregular migration' for migrants
in the country instead of controlling them. "This trend
has to be reversed through a constructive dialogue on migration, work and the
economy. Kenya has been lax in factoring voluntary migrants into its internal
development policies and frameworks," reads part of the 121-page report. Kenya signed the East African Community’s Common Market Protocol of
2010 allowing free movement of goods, labor, capital and services with its
partner states such as Tanzania, Uganda, Rwanda and Burundi. The survey
was conducted from January through face-to-face interviews. The respondents were government officials, refugees, irregular
migrants and regional representatives from Kenya, Tanzania, Uganda, and
Rwanda. Present
during the report’s launch were Immigration Department’s senior assistant director
Dan Opon, Open Society Initiative for East Africa executive director Mburu Gitu
and the Africa Centre on Migration Society co-founder Nassim Majidi. "For the region to thrive, people and goods will have to move more freely and more safely. Skilled professionals such as lawyers, doctors, accountants, architects and engineers will have to work across borders and develop working guidelines," Gitu said. Kenya is
also on the spotlight for neither ratifying nor implementing the Common Market
for Eastern and Southern Africa (COMESA) protocol seeking to speed up economic
growth and development among member states. This is
through citizens being given the right to establish residence in partner states
and allowing free movement of services and capital. "Kenya has
no internal legislative framework that factors the development impact of
migrants in the country. Two policies that would address this are still in
draft form," reads the report. The policies
are the Kenya Draft National Migration Policy of 2009 and the Kenya Draft
National Labor Migration aiming at managing labor migration for the benefit of
migrants and their families. The policy
on labor migration also seeks to provide the latest labor market information on
development of human resource policies and strategies. "The impact
of having these policies only in draft form was evidenced by research findings
of Tanzanian labor migrants in Nairobi having to travel to the border every
three months to renew their passports, and police harassment of EAC economic
migrants in Garissa," the report reads. Opon,
however, confirmed that the Immigration department is developing a National
Migration Policy in opening up the country for migrants in promoting regional
integration. He added
that work permits have been already classified to encourage free movement of
people and labor within the region. "The
department is modernizing the processing and issuance of visas, passes and
permits for foreign investors who are keen on exploring business opportunities
available in the Big Four Agenda and other sectors in the economy," Opon said. He, however,
decried the delayed harmonisation of immigration practices and policies within
EAC, and limited capacity that has derailed implementation of relevant the resolutions. Click here for the latest political news 