Police in Eldoret have arrested an employee of the late Loise Yatich over her killing in Eldoret two weeks ago. Loise was the wife of former Kakamega DC Paul Yatich. The farm worker, Boniface Kiptoo, was arrested in Umoja Estate in Nakuru and was yesterday arraigned before chief magistrate Charles Obulutsa in Eldoret. Obulutsa allowed the police to hold the suspect for 14 days in order to complete investigations into the murder of Loise, who was an employee of the Teachers Service Commission in Uasin Gishu. Her decomposing body was found in her house in Kiplombe area within Eldoret two weeks ago. She had deep cuts all over her body and police suspect she was raped before being killed. Investigations officer in the case John Wanyonyi told the court the suspect was arrested on October 27 with some of the missing items belonging to the deceased. “We believe he has useful information concerning the killing since he was an employee of the deceased and went missing after the incident,” said Wanyonyi. The suspect was arrested with a driving licence, Equity Bank ATM card and a Boresha Sacco ATM card, all belonging to the deceased. “The suspect will be held at the Eldoret police station and the case be mentioned on November 12,” said Obulutsa. Two other suspects, Laban Cheruiyot and Simon Lumile, were last week arrested at Kabiyet market in Nandi county while driving a vehicle belonging to the deceased. The suspects were also produced before chief magistrate Obulutsa who allowed police to hold them for 14 days in order to complete investigations Separately, a court in Eldoret has ordered the burial dispute over the body of Loise be heard as from today. Eldoret principal magistrate Naomi Wairimu issued temporary orders restraining former DC Yatich from taking the body for burial. Sophie Yegon, a sister of the deceased, obtained court orders on behalf of the family members stopping the burial. “The husband to our late sister has not informed us or involved us in burial arrangements,” Yegon told the court. She said their family had been kept in the dark. She was due to be buried in her husband’s rural home in Baringo. “As immediate relatives to the deceased we are not in a hurry to bury her and we want police to be given more time to complete investigations into how and why she was murdered,” said Yegon. She questioned why the former DC was hurrying to bury the deceased without involving other family members. “All we want is time to enable police complete their investigation and ensure all those involved are brought to book,” said Yegon. Wairimu ordered the Moi Teaching and Referral Hospital to preserve the body until the case is heard and determined. “The respondents are restrained from removing, transporting or in any manner dealing with the body of Loise Yatich now lying at Moi Teaching and Referral Mortuary until all all parties involved are heard on 30th October,” ordered the magistrate.