A mortuary attendant who allegedly 'sneaked' a dead infant into Pumwani maternity hospital and also failed to transport the bodies of 10 others to city mortuary has twice ignored summonses by the panel probing the saga. The failure by the officer, only identified as Changilwa, to ferry the bodies to the morgue led to the accumulation that was later discovered by Governor Mike Sonko in an impromptu visit. The county assembly health committee investigating the incident said they summoned Changilwa after acting medical superintendent Beth Maina, who was at the hospital at the time the Governor visited, said they could account for 10 bodies. One extra body, she claimed, was brought to the facility by the mortician. The body did not have a tag bearing its name and that of the mothers. All the others had tags, she said. “He actually confirmed that he was helping a mother who delivered in another facility and did not have anywhere to dispose off the body,” Maina told the committee. Besides Maina, suspended medical superintendent Catherine Mutinda and administrator Zadock Angahya also appeared before the committee on September 3. Mutinda and Angahya who were suspended by the governor following the discovery of the bodies, have been reinstated.Committee chairman Peter Warutere said Changilwa was supposed to appear the committee last Tuesday but failed. He was again summoned on Thursday but did not show up. “We summoned him based on the officers told us. He has not appeared and we are going to summon him again this week. At first he told us that he was unwell but we later realised that was not the case,” Warutere said. Administrator Angahya told the committee that he gave Changilwa money to hire a hearse to transport the bodies to the city mortuary on Friday, September 14, but he failed to do so. The bodies had accumulated from Wednesday, September 12. Sonko visited the hospital on Monday, September 17, and found infants' bodies stuffed in polythene bags. According to Maina, all the 10 bodies were stillbirths – some of whom their mothers were referred to the facility in critical conditions. The eleventh one was brought into the facility dead by the mortician. Pumwani Maternity hospital does not have a morgue or hearse to transport bodies to city mortuary. It hires a hearse which ferries three times in a week – Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays. Apart from the committee, Sonko has also appointed a team headed by acting health executive Charles Kerich to prove the matter. The directorate of criminal investigation and a multi-agency team led by the Medical Practitioners and Dentists Board are also investigating the incident. The facility is the oldest in the region. Between 60 and 100 babies are delivered there each day. Despite this high number, it grapples with numerous challenges including shortage of medical officers, poor and old infrastructure and huge debt. However, the county government has signed an agreement with the Agha Khan University and Nairobi West hospital to transform the facility. The Aga Khan will provide doctors, nurses, and hospital support staff for a period of two years at no cost.Sonko also announced the county's plan to construct a 450-bed capacity hospital at Pumwani to ease congestion.