After earning an automatic promotion to the SportPesa Premier League, KCB interim coach Elvis Ayany has promised to beef up his striking depend to cope with the demands of the top flight league. Ayany, who replaced his sacked boss John Kamau last month, led KCB back to top flight football yesterday following a 2-0 win over FC Talanta at Camp Toyoyo yesterday with an unassailable 75 points and with a match to spare. Moments after securing a place in the elite league, Ayany revealed his plan of strengthening his striking force in preparations for the new environment. He, however, declined to disclose the number of strikers in his plan but hinted of shopping for lethal goal poachers to complement their leading top scorer Simon Munala. He said: “We have to bring new players before the new season begins as we will be playing in a different league. We have to strengthen our front line with proven strikers who will help us improve our goal conversion rates. When the season ends, we will do an assessment of our performance and see how many players we will bring. It’s obvious, for a club to remain competitive in the top flight, their goal conversion rate must be high.” Despite leading the bankers to six consecutive wins since his elevation to the rank of stand-in coach, the former striker said he is yet to be given the full coaching roles. “My target was to first get the team back to the top flight and I am glad I have achieved it. I haven’t heard from the management in regards to giving me a permanent job but I thank them for their support and trust. It has been a tough one but we have made it at last thanks to the relentless fight by the playing unit.” It was jubilation at Camp Toyoyo as the bankers returned to the top flight after three seasons in the National Super League. The victory for the bankers locked Nairobi Stima out of the automatic promotion race as they can only gather an overall tally of 73 points. Former Wazito centre half Dennis Gicheru put his side ahead in the 81st minute before Munala fired home a stoppage time penalty to see them join Western Stima in the top league.