The births of thousands of children are known to be unregistered every year, and many deaths are never registered and are thus not counted in the statistics. According to How the P20 are doing in your country, a recent report from Development Initiatives, only 52 per cent of births among the P20 (people living on less than $2.54 a day) are registered in Kenya compared to 72 per cent in the rest of the population. This is an indictment to the huge number of births not registered in the country, and it is one of the barriers to effective planning and prudent resources allocation. In Kenya 21.9 million people are among the poorest 20 per cent of the world population and this is equivalent to 49 per cent of Kenya’s population. Civil registration and vital statistics (CRVS) are composite systems that involve multiple stakeholders in different government agencies and departments: the Ministry of Health, civil registration services, Kenya National Bureau of Statistics and so on. The systems generate data, and thereby create an avenue to services fundamental to the people, such as identity, legal entitlements, and access to social protection. A well-functioning CRVS system should register every birth and death in every part of the country and issue corresponding birth and death certificates in efficient manner. It should also compile and disseminate the statistics it collects, including causes of death information to support effective planning and resources allocation. CRVS systems produce data that is critical for socioeconomic planning and evidence-informed decisionmaking. For example, they enable government to monitor key demographic and health indicators, including infant, child, maternal, and adult mortality – data that can be used to target resources and interventions more appropriately. Weak CRVS systems are partly responsible for the systematic exclusion of children from poor and rural households from the benefits tied to birth certificates. It prevents these children from being counted in national health data – hence they are not considered when attendant resources and opportunities are being distributed to other children. Combined with other data collection systems, robust CRVS systems can entrench inclusive development processes by improving not only access to services including health and social protection, but also the representation and participation of citizens in governance. They can help us understand how to bridge the gap between the poorest and most vulnerable populations in the country and the rest, making equal opportunities for all segments of the population a reality. In the context of long-term development, the SDG agenda recognises that innovative and sustainable CRVS systems, integrated with health and national identification systems for instance, are powerful drivers for more inclusive economies and a range of future development benefits, producing critical baseline data for many population-based indicators. Goal 16, for example, refers specifically to providing legal identity for all, including birth registration. For Goal 3 on Health, vital statistics are needed for monitoring key targets for mortality including reducing maternal, neonatal and child deaths in the country. Vital statistics can also be used to measure progress in other areas, including poverty reduction, access to education and gender equality. Most attempts to improve CRVS systems are primarily focused on technological fixes and the integration of disconnected tools – the digitisation of administrative duties through the Integrated Population Registration System (IPRS), for example. Modern technology has only been adopted piecemeal, and there is a need to accelerate progress in both technical innovations and system-wide re-engineering. New technologies, if properly utilised, have a huge potential to bring CRVS systems to high levels of coverage and quality – but they are likely to fail if they cannot be sustained and scaled up, or if Kenya’s decision-makers do not adapt to the structural changes that the CRVS systems demand. Adequate funding and staffing levels across the whole country should also be prioritised. Registration services are inaccessible, especially to people living in remote rural areas in the country, and the quality of services remains poor as well – this means coverage and completeness of civil registration in some areas is lacking. Greater attention, including public sensitization to the benefits of civil registration and bringing the service closer to people, is needed to strengthen CRVS systems – especially in historically marginalised areas such as in the larger pastoralist counties of Northern Kenya and the coastal region. There should also be efficient coordination among the CRVS stakeholders at the national and county level; for example, the Ministry of Health, the Directorate of Civil Registration Services, the Kenya National Bureau of Statistics and the county-level health departments. There is a need to fast-track enactment of the draft National Registration and Identification Bill, which has been before the Parliament since 2014. Upon its enactment, the law will repeal the Births and Deaths Registration Act (CAP 149 of the laws of Kenya) to meet the requirements of the Constitution - making civil registration universal and sustainable. As we mark Equity Week 2018 in Kenya, it is time to reflect on the importance of strengthening CRVS systems and extending their coverage to include the poorest and most vulnerable in our country to address existing inequalities, and ensure that everyone counts in development planning for better outcomes.