The renaissance sculptor and painter, Michelangelo, spent four years lying on his back painting the ceiling of the Sistine Chapel – four years. Now it’s a global attraction. But, understand the principle that got the job done: someone was willing to do the grueling work required to make it happen. Someone was willing to pay the price. That’s how dreams are birth. Every dream has its price. There are no free dreams. Demands will be made on you. To pursue your idea, you may need to relocate geographically, invest financially, commit many hours of work or study, change careers, walk away from a comfortable job and start afresh, etc. You must understand what your dream expects from you and decide if you’re willing to pay the price or not. Some people assess their dream and conclude that they’re not able to pay the high cost – and that’s fine. Someone else will. One element that you must understand in your dream journey is: pain. No idea is achieved without pain. And it’s absurd to think you can achieve your dream without going through some form of pain. When you start out, you may not see the challenges, but along your journey, the pain embedded in the idea will emerge. Pain is a vital element of success. You can’t avoid it. Your idea will bring discomfort in interesting ways. For some people, all hell breaks loose once they step out on their dream. Some loose friends, others face betrayal and oppositions. Financial challenges kick in and suddenly, your life of certainty and comfort is now ruled by uncertainty. People get exposed to some form of pain once they engage a dream. I don’t mean to scare you. But it’s important to come to terms with such realities and be ready to pay the price. It helps to be mentally prepared for the challenges that come with your idea. Mental toughness is necessary to make your dream happen. A firm resolve to outlast the challenges that may come your way goes a long way. Also, it’s important to know what it takes to stop and discourage you. How tough are you? Those who eventually succeed determine to pay the price from the start. They are prepared to do whatever it takes to make it happen; these dreamers come to terms with the fact that their dream will cause some pain. If you wish to succeed, then you must do the same. If Michelangelo did it, so can you. Email: smpamugo@gmail.com    