Low-income earners have become more vulnerable to diseases associated with hunger and poor nutrition, a new report on the impact of VAT indicates. The report highlights the effects of VAT on food and nutritional security. It says that the eight per cent tax is “effectively a tax on everything”. The report, which was commissioned by the Route to Food Initiative, indicated the removal of several items like agrochemicals from the zero-rated list to the exempt schedule, essentially brought critical input in farming and food production into the VAT net. “These tax increases will directly diffuse into the costs of all products and in particular the prices of food, fuel and household essentials,” Layla Liebetrau, the project lead, said in a statement. She said there is a nutrition quality gap occasioned by chronic and systemic hunger. “The VAT on fuel exacerbates the situation by further stretching food and health budgets, particularly among vulnerable Kenyans. This makes it hard for them to afford and access adequate food to meet basic dietary requirements,” Liebetrau said. The report estimates food intake for low-income earners may decline by between 16 and 20 per cent. Alexander Owino, author of the report, said imposition of VAT, at any rate, translates to price increases to final consumers. “VAT is almost always a regressive tax. The tax burden falls disproportionately on low-income earners, the poor, the elderly and people living on social welfare transfers as well as the 83.45 per cent of Kenyans in the informal sector,” Owino said. Read:VAT On Food Could Hurt Manufacturers Members of the Agrochemical Association of Kenya say this measure will effectively increase the input costs to the farmer by as much as 50 per cent and may contribute towards making food more expensive by three-fold. “The government should consider a staggered taxation scheme that reduces taxes for pest control products that pose a low risk for human health and the environment while gradually raising taxes on harmful chemicals,” the report says. “The effect will be to encourage the use of less harmful inputs and the promotion of organic farming.” Last month, inflation touched an 11-month high at 5.7 per cent, indicating tougher times due to effects of VAT. According to the Kenya National Bureau of Statistics, prices for both food and non-food items rose marginally, pushing inflation from a low of 4.04 per cent in August. Inflation data released last month showed that prices of food and nonalcoholic drinks had increased by 0.37 per cent while housing, water, electricity, gas and other fuels increased by 0.47 per cent in September compared to August. Earlier, the CBK had warned that overall inflation is expected to rise in the near term, as secondary effects of VAT move to other sectors. Read: Putting VAT On Food Is Unjust Also See: Kenyans love free maternity healthcare, hate VAT on food Click here for the latest political news