Another member of the Nyeri County Public Service Board has been allowed to travel abroad by the court. Members of the board are facing charges of abuse of office and corruption. Chief magistrate Wendy Kagendo directed the office of Director of Public Prosecution to release travel documents of the board’s secretary Anthony Ndonga to allow to leave the country in December. Last month, the magistrate allowed Beatrice Wanjiru to fly out to the US. Kagendo issued the orders after the two made the separate applications through their lawyer Wahome Gikonyo. “The accused persons will deposit back the travel documents to court upon return,” said the lawyer. The two are charged alongside Alice Muita, Geoffrey Mahinda and Shellomith Nderitu with irregular employment of four officials in the county government. The court also allowed all the board members to access their offices after the prosecution led by state counsel Emma Gicheha said it was not interested in extending conditions barring them from going to office. offences According to the charge sheet, the accused persons conferred employment benefits to Johnson Njogu Kiongo, Jackson Kibutu Thagana, George Mwangi Muriithi and Phares Kabugi Njogu. The court heard that they committed the offences on diverse dates between August 2, 2013 and February 25, 2014 by allowing appointment of two people to the position of subcounty administrators without considering their qualifications. They were arrested after honouring summonses to appear at the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission regional headquarters in Nyeri. When the case came up for mention on Thursday, magistrate Kagendo also allowed the board to conduct meetings and discharge its duties of hiring and managing the county government’s human resource. However, they will be meeting under the supervision of an official from the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission or a police officer. The case will be heard for four consecutive days from February 18 to 21, 2019. The prosecution has lined up 18 witnesses including a document examiner. The examiner will testify in respect to the case of Kiongo and Thagana who are facing charges of forging academic documents and uttering false documents.