In front of the largest crowd to watch an international match at Kasarani in 22 years, Harambee Stars delivered a flawless performance to thrash Ethiopia 3-0 and remained firmly on course to qualify for a first African Cup of Nation finals since 2004. Star striker Michael Olunga, play maker Eric Johanna and skipper Victor Wanyama scored the goals that kept Stars hot on the heels of group leaders Ghana ahead of their crunch final day decider in Accra next month. From four matches now, Kenya have seven points with Ghana top with nine after being awarded six points from their double header with Sierra Leone, who  have three points. Ethiopia have four points. Ethiopia knew they were in for a torrid afternoon at Kasarani after the pre-match niceties presided over by Deputy President, William Ruto had concluded and the first whistle by Mauritius referee Heraldo blown. After a rare foray forward by the Ethiopians, which ended with Brian Mandela easily swatting aside Dawa Hotesa, Kenya took charge. A long ball forward by Dennis Odhiambo saw a defensive mix up beaten. Tesfaye and goalkeeper Samson Asefa led to a tussle between the former and Michael Olunga, allowing the ball to fall kindly to Eric Ouma, who was preferred to start in place of Ovella Ochieng. He tried to lob the keeper but his effort was blocked. His second attempt from the rebound was drilled wide. Johanna then whipped in a wicked cross that was desperately cleared by Getane Kebede for a fruit-less corner. Stars continued to dominate and were rewarded midway through the second half when Olunga got on the end of a Francis Kahata pass to fire in the opener. It was no more than Stars deserved and with their resistance broken, Ethiopia had no alternative but to come out of their shells. Dawa Hotesa tested Matasi before Melchew attempted a long range effort. Stars, however, struck the decisive second blow that killed off any hopes of Ethiopia getting anything from the game. Aboud Omar found Johanna, who made no mistake from close range. The 2-0 was taken into the break and 20 minutes into the second half, the game was killed off as contest when Johanna was brought down by Kebede, allowing Wanyama to send Asefa the wrong way and give Kenya the huge win. Stars now await a boardroom decision to see what action Caf will take from the suspension of Sierra Leone.