While
Wanjiku is every Tom Dick and Harry, Wagio is the persecuted Wanjiku, whose
interests must now be taken care of in the proposed referendum or the constitutional amendments will serve no purpose. I
agree with the handshake of President Uhuru and Raila Odinga and that time for
constitutional changes is ripe because we now know which parts of the Constitution
work and those that are not working for us. Moreover,
there was tacit agreement before the 2010 referendum that while 80 per cent of
the Constitution was agreeable, 20 per cent was not and would be amended later.
Those who still remember that gentleman’s agreement think time is now ripe for
its implementation. But the anticipated referendum must consider following
issues to succeed. First,
it must not be forgotten that constitutional amendments is an important issue,
bigger than the handshake, and must, therefore, accommodate more interests than
those of the two political leaders. The country will badly fail if the proposed
referendum has a sectional and limited foundation rather than a national and
broad one. Second,
views on the constitutional amendments should not be sought from ethnic
communities and their political desires and fears, but from Kenyans, whose
ethnic identities and interests will not colour their opinions, views and
suggestions. Third,
the referendum should seek, not the substitution of a presidential system with
parliamentary one and the creation of six positions of President and two
deputies, Prime Minister with two deputies, all from for six different
communities dubbed as national inclusion, but which will exclude 36 communities
from government. Fourth,
constitutional changes views should be sought from the persecuted Wagio because
she had little chance to influence the 2010 Constitution, which was the work of
ethnic elites and intellectuals. Fifth,
given the difficulties people have believing in the credibility of MPs — who
have been accused of receiving as less as Sh10,000 bribes to vote in a
particular direction in Parliament — they cannot be trusted to make amends to
the Constitution without putting their interests before those of the country. Equally,
the suggestion that the referendum will be voted for in the next general
election is completely unacceptable because it will not give Kenyans the
opportunity to end overrepresentation, the burden they want to end in next polls. The
referendum must deal with matters that need attention and those the current Constitution
has failed to resolve or effect, such as the two-thirds gender representation. And
as the country reels under increasing corruption, constitutional amendments
must restore Chapter Six, whose purpose was to safeguard national ethics and
values and ensure people who come to leadership are persons of sure integrity,
who will not assume leadership for personal enrichment and opportunity to be
corrupt. By ensuring leaders have values and ethics, the new constitution will ensure
it cannot be disregarded again. The
Constitution should also be amended to strengthen the Bill of Rights and ensure
every citizen is entitled to democratic rights of speech, expression and
assembly, and will also have access to food, shelter, health and life. An
emasculated Bill of Rights that cannot guarantee citizens their basic rights must
be resurrected and actualised. The
amendments must also remove from the Constitution detention without charge or
trial that was the bedrock of one party dictatorship. Kenyans must remember
that though the dragon of detention has not killed anyone so far, it still
bears the capacity to do so in future. People must, therefore, safeguard
themselves from it by removing it from the Constitution. Above
all, constitutional amendments must replace overrepresentation with
proportional representation that will guarantee that every vote counts. Finally
the law changes must specifically identify negative ethnicity as number one
enemy of the country, and create strong institutions that will guarantee its
eradication by outlawing it as an ideology and tool for political and any other
mobilisation. 