Murang’a governor Mwangi wa Iria has given the managements of water firms one week to hand over to the county government or risk losing their jobs. He said the county faces a water crisis because the sector is run by private entities. The defunct local authorities owned some firms. Only 60,000 out of 300,000 homes in the county are connected to tap water. Iria said the firms must comply with the law. “All I want is for the ownership of the water companies to be regularised as provided by the Constitution,” Iria said in Kandara. The governor spoke during the handover of Murang’a South Water and Sanitation Company. Iria thanked Muswasco for taking the first step towards becoming a public company. He said the remaining four firms must take their cue from Muswasco. Muswasco reviewed its ownership, giving the county government 4,997 out of 5,000 shares. The remaining three are held in trust by the offices of the Finance executive, Water executive and county secretary. Last week, a meeting held by governors, Water CS Simon Chelugui and his Devolution counterpart Eugene Wamalwa directed that water companies be fully owned by county governments. Tomorrow, Iria will visit Gatamathi Water Company in Mathioya. Hesaid he expects full cooperation from its management. Iria accused Murang’a Water and Sanitation Company (Muwasco) of inciting other companies to challenge the county in court. “We’ve written to them [Muwasco] to inform them that we’ll be going to their offices next Monday,” the governor said. Any form of resistance from the water firms will not be tolerated and those resisting will be sacked and their boards disbanded, he warned. The county will issue tenders for replacing manual meters with digital ones under which consumers will buy tokens. Iria said he is not after the jobs of the top managers of the companies, as they will continue operating normally even after handing over. The process will enable the county to directly channel funds into the firms and guarantee loans that will help expand connexion, he said.