A series of alleged extra-judicial killings by police in the northern Indian state of Uttar Pradesh has raised serious concerns about its force. Sharat Pradhan and Nitin Srivastava report for the BBC. "I got a call from the police at around 6.30am, asking if I wanted to film a gun battle going on with two criminals," says a TV journalist from Aligarh, a city in Uttar Pradesh, who has requested anonymity. He rushed to the spot, where to his surprise he was joined by several other journalists brandishing mics and cameras. Together, they filmed a scene that could have been out of a Bollywood film. Live images beamed across most of India's national television channels showed policemen armed with sophisticated assault rifles, kneeling behind thick bushes and firing at a bungalow. It's reasonably clear from the video footage that only the policemen are doing any firing. This goes on for about 30 minutes before police enter the bungalow. The video ends here. The journalists invited to film the scene were apparently not allowed to film the removal of the bodies of the two "criminals" who had been killed. Police say that the two men who died in the "shoot-out" were fugitives on the run after an investigation established their involvement in the murder of six people, including two Hindu priests, over the last month. They say the two men had been spotted riding a stolen motorbike and had run inside the bungalow after being asked to stop at a checkpoint. But the families of the men, identified as Mustakeem and Naushad, allege they were tortured and killed in custody, and the police covered it up by staging the gunfight. Naushad's mother Shaheen told BBC Hindi: "I clearly remember it was 16 September when I returned from the fields to find my daughter weeping, surrounded by neighbours. Police took away my son and my son-in law after thrashing them mercilessly for no reason." Her story was confirmed by neighbours in the area who say they saw policemen - some dressed in civilian clothes - enter the house, drag out the two men and start beating them before bundling them into a van and driving away. Click here for the latest political news