Baringo Senator Gideon Moi and his Nairobi counterpart Jonson Sakaja are among 14 Members of Parliament nominated for State awards. Parliament has also nominated Kikuyu MP Kimani Ichung'wa as meriting the title of Chief of the Order of the Burning Spear whereas Suba South's John Mbadi has been tipped to get The Elder of Golden Heart Award (EGH). The awards are normally conferred by the Head of State in line with the National Honours Act, 2013. President Uhuru Kenyatta is expected to install the 14 nominees for their exemplary performance in various sectors. Sakaja, who is also the chairman of the Senate National Security, Defence and Foreign Relations committee, has been proposed for the Chief Order of the Burning Spear award (CBS). Also in the list is Kitutu Chache MP Jimmy Angwenyi who doubles up as deputy leader of Majority party. He has been nominated for the Moran of the Golden Heart award. Isiolo Senator and Senate Deputy majority leader Fatuma Dullo has been nominated for the Moran of the Golden Heart while Kiminini MP Chris Wamalwa - deputy Minority chief whip, is listed for the Chief of Order of Burning Spear award. Nominated Senator Agnes Zani, a member of the Procedure and Rules Committee, has also been nominated for CBS. Narok woman representative Roselinda Tuya, who is also the first chairperson of the Speakers Panel, has also been tipped to be conferred the CBS award. Kibwezi East MP Jessica Mbalu, who is also the vice chairperson of the Public Accounts Committee, has also been nominated for the same. Other MPs listed for the Chief Elder of the Order of the Burning Spear (EBS) include Igembe North MP Richard Maore - chairperson of the select committee on National Government Constituencies Development Fund. Also in the category is Kisumu Esat MP Shakeel Shabbir - chairperson of the African Parliamentarians Network Against Corruption and Baringo Senator Gideon Moi who is the chairperson Senate ICT committee. Retired Senate Sergeant at Arms David Omura has been listed for the Head of State Commendation (HSC) alongside retired food and beverage supervisor in the catering department Godana Gufu. Kenyans with any objections to the names have been asked to forward the same to the Joint Secretariat, Parliamentary Honours Advisory Committee before October 31. Read: Uhuru fetes Ida Odinga, 29 other women as trailblazers Click here for the latest political news