ODM leader Raila Odinga has asked Kenyans to fight tribalism and corruption that is eating up the country. Speaking at Bukhungu Stadium on Saturday during Mashujaa Day celebrations, Raila said Kenyans should aim for development and not fighting among themselves. "Tupigane na ukabila, ubaguzi na ufisadi ili tuweze kuwaleta Wakenya pamoja kama walivyotaka mashujaa wetu," he said. (Let's fight against tribalism, exclusion and corruption so that we can unite Kenyans in line with our independence heroes' dreams.) Raila said he will work with President Uhuru Kenyatta to unite not only Kenya but East Africa and Africa as a whole. "Tumeamua ati sisi tuchukuwe Kenya turudishe vile ilikuwa kitambo. Tupigane na mambo ya wizi was uchaguzi na tuunganishe wakenya pamoja.... tutafanya kazi kuunganisha wakenya," he said. (We have decided to return the country to what it was in the past. Let us fight electoral fraud and unite Kenyans..... let us work together.) Uhuru and Raila decided to bury their bitter political differences with the much-acclaimed March 9 handshake. On April 30, a 14-member team was formed to steer the unity deal. The new members joined the committee co-chaired by lawyer Paul Mwangi (representing Raila) and Martin Mwangi (representing Uhuru). Kenyans started experiencing peace after the hard-fought elections in 2017 in which scores of NASA supporters were killed. The handshake caught both Raila and Uhuru's allies flat-footed. The newfound unity has elicited varied reactions from people across the political divide. Some leaders back it, while others in the ruling party Jubilee view it with suspicion. They see it as a scheme to scuttle unity in the party and to spoil Deputy President William Ruto's chances of succeeding Uhuru in 2022. More on this: Unchecked corruption will destroy Kenya, Raila says Related: Corruption fight sending tremors in Jubilee, no one's after Ruto seat - Raila Read: Ojaamong, nine others in court on corruption charges Also read: Judiciary panic as DCJ Mwilu faces Sh12m graft charge On Saturday, Raila thanked Kakamega governor Wycliffe Oparanya for improving Bukhungu Stadium "Namshukuru ndugu yangu Gavana Ambetsa Oparanya kwa kung'arisha Bukhungu Stadium, Kakamega imerudi ikawa msichana mdogo, majengo yote yamepigwa rangi," he said. (I thank Governor Oparanya for beautifying Bukhungu Stadium. Kakamega has become like a beautiful girl. All the buildings have been painted.) Raila said a majority of the people gathered at Bukhungu are Nasa supporters who were "Canaan-bound" during the run-up to the general election. "Lakini tulikutana na mamba njiani na tukaamua kujenga daraja ili tuunganishe nchi," Raila. (But on the way to Canaan, we met crocodiles and we decided to build bridges and unite the nation.) Last month, Raila said corruption must be made unprofitable to end theft of public resources. The former Prime Minister said he supports the ongoing purge on corrupt officials. Every year, corruption drains billions of shillings from the state in rackets involving government officials and businesspeople - known as "tenderpreneurs" for their success in winning public contracts, he said. The Opposition chief said graft is almost making the country bankrupt. “It is just the beginning of the fight against the deadly monster,” he said. On October 1, Raila took a swipe at Deputy President William Ruto following the latter's assertions that the former Premier is out to wreck the Jubilee party. Speaking in Machakos, Raila said those who feel he is scheming to have them removed from Jubilee are "only scared of the war on corruption." Without mentioning names, Raila said the government's latest crackdown on graft "has sent tremors making some politicians to panic". "Big fish" have been caught in the ongoing fight against corruption. DPP Noordin Haji and DCI George Kinoti are taking no prisoners. Among the high-flying personalities charged with corruption are Busia governor Sospeter Ojaamong, former Nairobi governor Evans Kidero and Deputy Chief Justice Philomena Mwilu. Others are serving and former parastatal bosses as well as former NYS officials. Click here for the latest political news 