Mohamed
Abdirahman Mukhtar, 18, who comes from the Jareerweyne Bantu clan found himself
in trouble after proposing to the family of his fiancée, Rukia Abdullahi Mohamed,
who is from the Abgal sub-clan of the Hawiye clan. Her family was torn apart by
the wedding as some blessed it while others out rightly refused claiming he is
from a tribe that cannot marry their daughter! I am
mentioning tribes above because apparently it seems to be the source of the
problem.  DEROGATORY WORDS Jareer in
Somali stands for hard hair or ‘’nywele ngumu’’ and is a derogatory word used to
describe the Somali-Bantus, who are mostly poor peasants and labourers in
Somali’s major cities. They originally hail from between the Juba and Shebele rivers,
where they are mostly famers. Other derogatory words used against them include,
“san weyne” or big nosed. Mohamed and Rukia
dated for two years but they knew her relatives would not approve their wedding
because of their clan difference. However, their love was too strong and defied
the taboo that threatened to separate them. In Somalia, some
minority tribes, including the Jareer, are looked down on. The bigger clans traditionally
despise the minorities out of old taboos that make the impression the minorities
are filthy, uncouth. This tradition is slowly dying thanks to Islam but is
still silently practiced. In line with
Muslim traditions, Mohamed’s family went to propose to Ruqia’s family and took
presents but the news sharply divided Ruqia’s family. Her father’s relatives initially
said they had no problem with the marriage before changing their mind later.
Her maternal relatives said to be from the Murursade sub-clan of the Hawiye
clan outrightly refused, saying there was no way a Jareer would marry their
daughter.  LOVE IS
BLIND Ruqia told
her family she is in love with Mohamed and that she would marry him come what
may by hook or crook. The two lovebirds wedded in secret after they eloped. “If you love
someone you don’t care which tribe he belongs to. I don’t believe in ethnicity.
I have never asked which tribe he belongs to because I love him. They told me
to divorce him but I declined,” Ruqia told local media. Her family
were not happy. On September 20, some of Rukia’s relatives attacked and killed
Mohamed’s uncle Ahmed Dowlo at his work place in a garage where he was a
mechanic. They mercilessly sliced him with machetes and blunt objects before
setting him on fire. His wife Saida Aweys confirmed the incident to local media. ISLAM FORBIDS
DISCRIMINATION The story took over social media by
storm, becoming the number one public talk online prompting the government to intervene
by arresting four of Rukia’s relatives, including her mother, for the murder. Mohamed’s
relatives are now calling for those arrested to be charged and killed as per Somalia’s
sharia law: The eye for an eye rule. In a bid to protect the newly married
couple, the government put them in an unknown hotel in Mogadishu and promised
to hold a national wedding for them to end marriage discrimination of certain communities,
which unfortunately seems to silently thriving amongst Somalis. Mohamed and Rukia’s wedding has
sharply divided Somalis and ignited divergent views locally and internationally.
It is sad to see online posts full of threats, hatred and discrimination regarding
the marriage. Some of her relatives argue the marriage cannot go ahead while
her mother is behind bars. They seem to forget Mohamed’s uncle was killed. Somalis are predominantly Muslims and
discrimination is unlawful in Islam as Allah clearly states in the Holly Qur’an
Chapter 49 Surah Al-Hujarat (The Dwellings) Verse 13: “O Mankind! We have
created you from a single  (pair) of a
male and a female, and made you into nations and tribes, that ye may know each
other (not that ye may despise (each other). Verily the most honoured of you in
the sight of Allah is (he who is) the most righteous of you. And Allah has full
knowledge and is well acquainted (with all things). A Muslim man can marry any Muslim
woman irrespective of her tribe, colour or class/social status. I don’t see any
problem with the marriage and mind you, given the rate at which immorality is
increasing, early pregnancy is getting out of hand and many girls future life is
being destroyed. In our world of today, it is actually a blessing and a relief if
your daughter’s hand is sought for marriage. The Somalis from the Abgal or
Murusade actively adding fuel to the fire by calling on the Abgal or Murusade
to retaliate against the Jareer’s should stop the madness. Perhaps the following famous Somali sayings
might bring them back to their senses! Walaasha iskuma hubtid, seediga ha
colaysan – You are never sure of your sister, don’t hate your brother in law! –
A woman will always side with her husband so don’t pick a fight with your
brother in law! Seedi wa beer – You brother in law is
like liver – he is indispensable! Seediga wuu ku sige – Your brother in
law missed marrying you! – This is used to remind men to respect their in laws
warning that might have escaped being married by his in law by his virtue of
being born a man, perhaps had he been born a woman the man would have married
him! These wise words mean a lot and
certainly there is some truth in them. Lets spread love not hatred.  DID YOU KNOW? *In Islam, using derogatory words or calling/giving
nick names to people or someone is prohibited. Holly Qur’an 49:11 : “O you who have believed, let not a people ridicule (another) people;
perhaps they may be better than them; nor let women ridicule (other) women;
perhaps they may be better than them. And do not insult one another and do not
call each other by (offensive) nicknames. Wretched is the name of disobedience
after (one’s) faith. And whoever does not repent – then it is those who are the
wrongdoers,” *In Islam, dowry is given to the
woman. She sets her dowry and is paid to her by the husband or his father. Holly Qur’an- 4
“And give unto the women, (whom ye marry) free gift of their marriage portions...” A man must negotiate with his fiancée
on the dowry, which can be paid before or after the engagement or nikah. Dowry
of the woman must be paid before the man dies. The family is given presents but
the dowry is for the woman.  