A Meru court on Thursday ordered Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang'i to probe the conduct of Ntunene chief Murungi Matundu. Judge David Majanja gave the CS 45 days to investigate the administrator with a view to taking disciplinary action against the latter. Seven Igembe North residents have filed a petition demanding the chief's sacking citing the officer's tainted record. They are Andriana Mithika, Jeremiah Ratanya, Joseph Maingi, Lucy Thiauri, Patrick M'Muthuiba, Purity Makena, and Stanley Ntongai. Matundu, Igembe North Deputy county commissioner, Interior PS, and the Attorney General are named as respondents. The petitioners claim that the chief was recruited despite him not meeting requirements of Chapter 6 of the Constitution on Leadership and Integrity. The seven allege that the chief did not meet either of the requirements as advertised on August 1, 2016. "The chief is a class seven dropout from Murungene primary school (1979). He doesn't possess a diploma or certificate." "He doesn't have a certificate of good conduct and is computer illiterate," the application reads in part. Petitioner Lucy, in a supporting affidavit, avers that the chief was a suspect in the murder of her husband. The matter was before the Meru chief magistrate under Case No. 497 of 2003. The petitioners further claim the Matundu's siblings had sued the latter for perjury and attempted fraud in a succession case. They also accuse the administrator of assaulting one of the petitioners on September 5, 2015. In his replying affidavit, the chief has refuted the claims saying the murder case was also dismissed. Matundu says he did his final class seven exams in 1979 at Mariri primary school. He avers that he had registered as a candidate though he was schooling at Murungene primary school then. Matundu adds that he was of much help to Lucy - one of the petitioners, and has never been involved in any assault. The chief further says he did secondary school examinations as a private candidate in 2014. He also denies being a beneficiary of any succession cause. Click here for the latest political news 