Tenants of the condemned Seefar Apartments claim authorities are inventing dangers to instil fear on owners, residents and neighbours. The tenants, in a statement on Friday through the acting Seefar homeowners chairman Paul Otieno, said the Water Resources Authority leadership has shifted the focus to Nairobi Dam embankment. “They now claim that Seefar is very unsafe, that it sits where there used to be a river before the dam, that the dam embankment can be broken should there be floods, that heavy rains are coming in 14 days, not remembering that the same authority approved the dam embankment in 2015 as sound,” Otieno said. They are now calling on the authority to make their technical report public. “We have since realised that we are shooting a moving target. We started engaging various professionals and experts in order to establish the truth. And, not surprisingly, our findings are that Nairobi Dam embankment could be the safest among the over 200 dams in Kenya. There is a technical report to that effect by one of the very few available dam experts in our country,” he added. “The same has been re-emphasised by another independent Geotechnical Engineer who has been involved in dam and earthquake researches in Osaka Japan University for years and now attached to JKUAT. Seefar community also has professionals in almost all sectors and our own structural engineers cannot see any danger. Which science does WRA use?” They now want Nema and Warma to revoke the ‘illegal notices forthwith’ and stop being shoddy. On Thursday, WRA said the developer of the apartments twice ignored notices by relevant authorities to stop the construction. WRA regional manager John Kinyanjui said they issued Edermann Property with stop orders in 2011 when the construction of the apartments started and again in 2012, but both orders were ignored. “The first order was issued in the initial stage of construction in an attempt to stop them from excavation until the riparian area was marked. But they ignored,” Kinyanjui said. A report by a surveyor hired by Seefar Apartments owners claimed the buildings are not on riparian land. The tenants hired Kolmans Geomantic consultants to determine the proximity of the apartments to Nairobi Dam. The consultant stated that the shortest distance point on the embankment to Seefar apartments is 42 metres. The 12-storey building has 288 units of two and three bedrooms. Nema and the WRA in a notice dated September 12 to Edermann Property - the developer - said the building is on Nairobi Dam’s riparian reserve. Kinyanjui said that lives of people residing at Seefar could be jeopardised if the apartment is not demolished.