 The DPP is seeking maximum sentences for all 37 NYS scandal suspects whose trial began in Nairobi yesterday. State prosecutors also want assets and properties of the former PS Lillian Omollo and ex-NYS director general Richard Ndubai and 35 other suspects forfeited. They have been charged with several counts of corruption including abuse of office, neglect of official duties, breach of trust, fraudulently making payments, money laundering and dealing with suspect property. All suspcets are facing at least one count of conspiracy to commit fraud.The charges attract a fine of not less than Sh1 million or a jail term not exceeding 10 years or both. The other charges attract various jail terms of up to 25 years. State counsel Joseph Riungu said the case is about obscure but ruthless fly-by-night briefcase companies and business entities which swindled Sh226 million from the National Youth Service. Read: DPP withdraws charges against eight NYS suspects for lack of evidence He said the sum is part of Sh8 billion siphoned from the agency’s coffers for goods not delivered. The offences were committed with the assistance of public officers in the department of Public Service and Youth. Prosecutors told Anti-Corruption Court chief magistrate Douglas Ogoti they will demonstrate omissions were “not just negligent but well calculated schemes to siphon public funds. ”Riungu said Omollo who was the accounting officer for the department did not ensure proper use of funds and was not accountable to the National Assembly and the Treasury. Omollo was also mandated to sign contracts, and send circulars to ministries and agencies for use when appropriate, the court heard. “We shall demonstrate that in this case, the circulars used and contractors numbers were forged,” Riungu said. He said they will also show the court how banks were used to receive and make fraudulent payments. Once the payments were made, the money was immediately withdrawn or transferred to other accounts, the court heard. Banks involved include Equity, Standard Chartered and KCB. Also see: Trial of Lilian Omollo, 36 others in NYS scandal kicks off “The Institutions were used to place, lay, integrate and conceal the source, usage and disposition of proceeds of crime hence the charges of money laundering,” Riungu said. The DPP said Ndubai transferred Sh7 million to CMC Motors on October 7, 2016. Sebastian Mokua, a head at the supplies branch in the department of Public Works was the first witness to take to the stands. He mainly explained how the tendering process is undertaken at government agencies. Riungu said they will show how the Ngirita family made suspicious transactions in Gilgil, Naivasha, Village Market and Hurlingam in Nairobi including cash withdrawals and transfers. Earlier, Ogoti dismissed an application by the defence lawyer Wandugi Kirathe for adjournment. Hearing continues today. Click here for the latest political news 