It’s a common occurrence — common at least to people who went to proper private schools with very English names, or those who have urbane friends with a much wider view of the world. The occurrence: You’re in a restaurant with a friend and a strange, exotic meat dish is placed in front of you. Your friend ordered it and so you don’t know what it is, but at the urging of your friend, who refuses to tell you what you’re about to eat until you take a bite, you tentatively put whatever it is in your mouth, chew then swallow. ‘So what is it?’ you ask. And your friend says, it’s lizard. Too late to spit it out. And while you’re wondering whether it’s also too late to rush to the loo and stick a finger down your throat, your friend asks. ‘What do you think?’ To which you say, ‘Tastes like chicken.’ Worldwide, ‘tastes like chicken’ is an utterance used when trying to describe the flavour of an unusual food. Any meat that is pale in colour, firm in texture, and lacking in strong flavour gets the chicken comparison. The expression has been used so often (by the class of people mentioned above), it has become a cliché. Thing about clichés is they are often true. Ergo, it is true that most cooked exotic meats do indeed taste like chicken, and we’re talking a wide range of cooked meats — from birds, snakes, lizards, crocodiles, small mammals, frogs, the long list continues. There are a number of explanations why everything tastes like chicken. The one I found most interesting was a theory by Joe Staton of the Museum of Comparative Zoology. According to Staton, in his paper ‘Tastes like Chicken?’, evolution is the reason diverse breeds of animals from amphibians to fowl taste like chicken. That is to say, many animals have a similar taste, when cooked, because they evolved from a common ancestor that tasted the same way. Staton specifically noted that tetrapods largely taste like chicken. Tetrapods (or Tetrapoda, a super class in evolutionary classification) are four-limbed vertebrates. These include living and extinct amphibians, reptiles, and mammals (including primates and all hominid subgroups including humans) — seeing as we’re talking about ‘tastes-like’, best not to think too much about the ‘including humans’ part. Staton goes on: Birds will (in most cases) naturally taste like chicken because they’re all birds. An interesting tidbit, because chickens and other birds are closely ancestrally linked to dinosaurs, dinosaur meat would have also tasted very much like chicken, hypothetically. Modern reptiles, however, taste the most like chicken, as the two are in the same group of animals known diapsids. Diapsids is a subclass of tetrapods that developed two holes behind the eye on each side of the skull, which does not occur in mammals. Turtles and tortoises are diapsids, so yes, our shelled reptilian friends taste like chicken, too. The argument Staton’s paper makes is chicken-like flavour did not originate among birds. Rather, it arose much earlier in evolutionary history. So among amphibians (frogs) and land-based animals, some degree of chicken-like flavour developed and has persisted among all tetrapods. But don’t take Staton’s word for it, more so if the only thing you’ve ever eaten that tastes like chicken is chicken. I mean, ‘When was the last time you did something new for the first time?’ – John C Maxwell.