So you have heard it from the proverbial horse’s mouth: Central Kenya votes are not for sale to the highest bidder. Those who have been salivating to gobble up the Kikuyu vote at an auction near them had better come up with other strategies on how they will grow the votes in their pockets, as they prepare for the epic battle of 2022. For years, the Kikuyu vote has never been on sale to an entity outside Central Kenya. That is a stubborn fact, which is not expected to change for years to come. The Kikuyu vote always goes to a prince or princess chosen by the community – only then will the rest of the communities native to the region, such as the Ameru and the Embu follow suit, their opinions notwithstanding. Retrospectively, this is not the first time a politician from the region is talking about this. The majority of the political heavyweights in this vote-rich region share MP Maina Kamanda’s sentiments. They have either not found the platform to share their view or they harbour sinister motives because some of them are in Deputy President William Ruto’s list of supporters. They therefore don’t want to be seen as rocking the boat from within. However, there are those who have come out guns blazing to defend the Kikuyu turf from real or imagined encroachment by ‘outsiders’. The political stand of former Kiambu Governor William Kabogo and fiery Nyeri Town MP Ngunjiri Wambugu, in as far as the Kikuyu vote is concerned, is in the public domain and it is not at loggerheads with Kamanda’s opinion. All these accelerated noises are a pointer to the succession politics of 2022. It is, therefore, not a secret who Kamanda’s chief target was. That Ruto was present at the funeral confirms why the nominated MP picked the topic. His aim was for Ruto to get the message first-hand, as opposed to watching it on TV or reading it in the dailies. Ruto aims to succeed President Kenyatta. But there are forces among the Kikuyu elite hell-bent on deflecting his ambitions to be the next President. Unlike the politics surrounding Uhuru’s succession plan during Jubilee’s first term, the second term is mum on Ruto’s place after the head of state exits office. In fact, Kikuyu politicians, who have been associating themselves with the DP, allege they have been ‘warned against’ supporting his political dreams. Who warned them? Of course those who hold Kamanda’s views on the Kikuyu vote in relation to 2022. In the face of this, Ruto has time and again told those not happy about his ambitions to go easy because he is not depending on the Kikuyu vote to attain his dreams. He emphasises that the Kikuyu owes him no debt, although Uhuru has been telling his people to support his DP when the time comes. In countries where democratic processes are well developed and protected, voters are left to choose their leaders. Kenya’s nascent democracy has remained stunted for decades, thanks to deliberate attempts to force the electorate into tribal cocoons, where politicians decide and think for them and tell them who to vote for. The politicians’ sentiments confirm that the House of Mumbi has other plans parallel to those of Ruto. And the DP has not been sitting on his laurels waiting to be rescued. He has been consolidating his support base amid all the shifting geopolitical alliances being witnessed. In his basket is Bungoma senator Moses Wetang’ula, who is wriggling his way into the DP’s running-mate position, although he knows he can’t hack it due to his weak political base in Western Kenya. Since the beginning of the year, the President has never spoken about who should be his heir. The duo, who worked like Siamese twins until last year’s general election, now acts as if they are strangers. The handshake and the politics of 2022 have put asunder their relationship. The debate on constitutional review is the latest entrant into the list of worries that threatens the DP’s ascension to power.   