What are
police for? The Constitution says how
the police should do what they do (respecting human rights, with integrity,
without corruption, professionally, and while fostering relationships –
presumably good ones – with society) but not what they do. The Constitution of
Kenya Review Commission (CKRC) CKRC draft in 2002 said their purposes were: Ensuring a peaceful and safe environment, the
protection of rights and freedoms, security of the people, prevention and
detection of crime, supporting victims of crime and disorder, and protecting property.
Quite similar provisions remained in later drafts, until the MPs meeting in
Naivasha in 2010 removed it. Inexplicably, the Committee of Experts finalised
the draft leaving us with a Constitution that tells us what defence forces are
for but not why we have the police. An early police
commissioner in England set out a vision of policing often called “policing by
consent”. It emphasises points such as, “the power of the police is
dependent on public approval of their existence, actions and behaviour and on
their ability to secure and maintain public respect”, and getting public
support by “offering service and friendship to all members of the public
without regard to their wealth or social standing” and using physical force
only when persuasion and warning do not work and even then using only the
minimum force necessary. It stressed that the police are simply “members of the
public who are paid to give full time attention to duties that are incumbent on
every citizen in the interests of community welfare and existence.” It was
never going to be easy to establish a police service that achieved anything
resembling policing by consent in Kenya after the colonial experience.  Historians tell us that after the Second World
War, the colonial police became more coercive in their approach, even before
the excesses of the Mau Mau period. But after
Independence, the first presidents, too, used the police ruthlessly as a tool
of government, and party, domination and oppression.  CONSTITUTIONAL
DEVELOPMENT The CKRC said that complaints of “police harassment,
brutality, corruption and indeed complicity in petty and major crimes”, were very
common from the public, who said they wanted police “who respect the citizens –
and who can be respected by them”. The Administration Police Service were especially criticised,
and the CKRC recommended that they cease to be a separate entity. But the AP
energetically wooed the National Constitutional Conference (Bomas) delegates,
entertaining them at its barracks, and convinced them to change this provision
in the draft. The Waki Report on post-election violence recommended the AP
be merged into the regular police. But the Ransley Task Force on Police Reform
said the time was not ripe. Faced with this disagreement, the CoE seems to have sought
to do away quietly with the AP by recognising the Kenya Police Service only. Those
MPs in Naivasha explicitly brought back the AP, though under an Inspector General,
who also commands the Kenya Police Service.  RECENT CHANGES With the major changes that were recently announced, the AP will
have limited roles in future, as units concerned with the national border,
stock theft, rapid deployment, and critical installations protection unit. They
will no longer be the regular police anywhere, or the back up for what we used
to call provincial administration. The media have focussed on the (rather ugly) uniforms, but
there is sense in this decision. While APs will no longer look like soldiers,
no AP officer “merged” into the general force will have to wear a KPS uniform. Another reform is to be the end of most official (and usually
deplorable) housing for police. They will receive housing allowances and live
in the community. This does some justice to the police, whom the Constitution
unfairly excludes from some rights, including to housing. The benefits of the new system are supposed to be greater
clarity of command, greater efficiency, better relations with the public,
better discipline and greater accountability. THE RIGHT DIRECTION? There have been many efforts to reform the police. Most of
the institutional reforms do seem reasonable, and have been welcomed. Under the
Constitution the National Police Service Commission (NPSC) was set up, while
the Independent Police Oversight Authority (IPOA) was set up by law. There have
been various other laws intended to improve the whole criminal justice system,
including the police. And the police have revamped their approach to “community
policing”, and published last year an apparently sensible summary of how the
police and the public can work together to enhance people’s security.  SO WHY THE
NEGATIVE VIEW OF THE POLICE? The
dominant public view of the police is of a force (its old name) that gets away
with murder, and fleeces a vulnerable public. A Transparency International 2016
survey found that about half those who had themselves initiated contact with
police were dissatisfied with the outcome. Many people paid the police for
services that were supposed to be free. When the police initiated contact,
about a third of the people had paid bribes. Of people arrested, 70 per cent
had not been told of their right to remain silent. Recently,
Father Gabriel Dolan wrote, “the area in which I live has recently
witnessed mob justice, vigilante and police killings on such a scale that the
environs should be declared a war zone. Yet a visit to the local station proved
depressingly disheartening when top cops openly declared that they will
continue to kill any young person they find carrying a crude weapon.” [??] Something does not add up. Interestingly, the police
published a “Strategy Framework” for implementing reforms over 2015- 18, which
foreshadowed the recent developments.  It
spoke of the need for common values among the various units before the KPS and
the AP were merged further. It identified integrity, respect, diversity, teamwork,
transparency, and accountability as among those values. This would surely
elicit at best a hollow laugh from Kenyans. Respect is the last thing that
those Kenyans who live in informal settlements (most Nairobians) feel they get
from the police.  WHAT WE NEED All these schemes and reforms will come to nothing if there
is not the leadership from above that shows respect for all Kenyans. Shoot to
kill orders not only urge violations of the law, but also demonstrate scorn for
the ordinary citizen. Secondly, while we would all understand that IPOA would take
some time to get into its stride, by now, it should have been showing some
better results. And it needs to relate better to the public so that they
understand its limitations. Thirdly,
while institutional reforms are all well and good, operational law also
matters. It is unfortunate that good changes to the law after the Constitution
were rolled back by Parliament in 2014, particularly by allowing use of
firearms to protect property (not only life and limb). Fourthly,
experience shows that law can be simply ignored. Did you know for example, that
the Police Act still says that any force used by the police must be must
be proportional “to the objective to be achieved, the seriousness of the
offence, and the resistance of the person against whom it is used, and only to
the extent necessary”? When the police cause injuries they must provide medical
assistance immediately and notify relatives or close friends of those injured. Finally, we need the government to show that they realise
that the police service is just that – a service for the people of Kenya, not a
tool for a particular government to control the people of Kenya. The design of
the Constitution was for the police to have a considerable degree of
independence. Yet too often the executive seems to be ordering them to act. And
changes in the law have placed too much power in the hands of the executive
over senior appointments and dismissals. More than assertions, by senior officers and politicians, of
support for the police’s constitutional role is needed for Kenyans to consent
to policing and to see the police as part of a common commitment to “community
welfare and existence”. 