The holiday season
is approaching fast, and Kenyans not only tend to set aside their usual diets,
but they also gain a few extra kilos. However, it is possible to still enjoy
the holidays and stay fit at the same time. There's an increasing number of
cities around the world that are gaining popularity for their ability to
maintain mental, physical, and emotional health. With an ever-growing
focus on health and fitness, Dubai has become the perfect wellness destination,
offering experiences that both relax and nourish the body, whilst destressing
the mind. It is also fast becoming a hub for fitness, with numerous world-class
events available for visitors to partake in. Here is our top
pick of 5 fitness events you should consider when you visit Dubai:  Dubai Fitness Challenge 26 October - 24
November 2018 This flagship
fitness initiative is back for its second edition with an even bigger public
engagement programme. The festival will encompass 30 full days of activity
across the entire city, with the goal of attracting over one million
participants. The exciting calendar of events includes an extensive range of
fitness activities, free facilities and sports, the trendiest workout routines
and popular weekend fitness carnivals across the city.  Color Run 10 November 2018 The Color Run is a
5km, untimed event in which runners are doused from head to toe in different
colours at each kilometre. With only two rules, the idea is easy to follow:
wear white at the start line, and finish plastered in colour. The seventh
edition of the Color Run returns this year with a special theme, inviting
participants to don their best super hero costumes for a Hero Tour of the running
event at Dubai Autodrome. After you complete the race, the fun continues with a
Finish Festival – a party with music, dancing and even more colour. The event
is open to all, and there’s even a special race for children.  du Tough Mudder 7 - 8 December
2018 du Tough Mudder is an
extensive mud and obstacle course designed to test physical strength, stamina,
and mental grit in a team-oriented challenge. The event also encompasses the du
Mini Mudder, a 1.5km obstacle course mud run designed specifically for
adventure-seeking kids.  Spinneys Dubai 92 Cycle Challenge 14
December 2018 Launched in 2010, the
Spinneys Dubai 92 Cycle Challenge is a popular annual event that starts and
finishes at the spectacular Dubai Autodrome. Attracting thousands of cyclists
each year, the race includes two distance options – 53km and 92km. The route
takes riders on Dubai’s multi-lane roads with the full support of the Dubai
Police, with some major roads even closed off for cyclists on the day.  XYoga Festival March 2019 XYoga Dubai is a
one-of-a-kind city-wide yoga festival designed for experienced yogis and
beginners alike. Offering a vibrant selection of classes, workshops and
activities by renowned international and local yoga instructors, the festival
provides the perfect atmosphere for a holistic yoga experience.