Hisham Matar’s book, Anatomy of a Disappearance, is a poignant story of a filial love and how life is shaped by terrible loss. In the early 1970s, 12-year-old Nuri el-Alfi lives a quiet life in Cairo. His mother passed away when he was eight years. His father, Kamal, once a high-ranking government official from an unnamed country and now living in exile, is a distant father. Every summer, Nuri and his father holiday in the coastal city of Alexandria. It is here that they meet Mona, a young English woman in a yellow bathing suit who fascinates both father and son. She becomes a friend to the family. Then Nuri is sent off to boarding school in England by his father. Meantime, Kamal has fallen in love with Mona. Despite the 15-year age difference, he marries her, hoping as well to give his son a mother figure. In England, Nuri’s infatuation for Mona remains undiminished and he grows more resentful towards his father, wishing he would disappear. Then comes the shocking news that his father has vanished, in an apparent kidnapping in Switzerland. Then 14-year-old Nuri’s world is shattered. There follows an agonising search, led by a Swiss investigator, which goes on for years with little success. Instead, Nuri uncovers more and more mysteries as he attempts to piece together a picture of the secret life of his father. The story is narrated by Nuri and he takes us through flashbacks to early childhood, memories of his troubled mother, and the loving care of his long-time nanny Naimi, whose real identity is also an intrigue. Though they were never close, losing his father clouds every other relationship in Nuri’s life. The lack of resolution adds to his unrequited hopes. The gnawing of a guilty conscience diminishes his fixation for his stepmother. The book opens with the line, “There are times when my father’s absence is as heavy as a child sitting on my chest.” It speaks as much to the ensuing narrative and as to the painful life experiences of this award-winning author. When Matar was three, his family left Libya for Egypt because of political persecution. While he was in college in the UK in 1990, his father was captured by the Egyptian secret police and has never been seen since. From a youthful viewpoint, Matar paints a picture of the complex relationship between a child and his parents. The language is descriptive and yet Nuri remains aloof to us. We are taken into the lifestyle of a privileged family in Cairo, the political climate of the period, and understand something of the hardship experienced by Libyan dissidents during the Gaddafi era. Anatomy of a Disappearance may come off as dissatisfying and incomplete, but in hindsight, events happen in real life that remain unresolved. Matar’s debut novel, In the Country of Men, was shortlisted for the 2006 Man Booker Prize, and The Return won the 2017 Pulitzer Prize for an autobiography.