The
stop-gap measures by the ministries of education, interior and all
other authorities to stop cheating in the KCPE and KCSE exams show that the tests are becoming intolerably high-stakes. These
measures are evidence that national examinations are make-or-break,
do-or-die — life's chances are determined by this single exam.
Therefore, everybody will do anything to pass, including breaking the
law. Their futures depend on it. This pressure harms learners' mental and emotional well-being. We need to eliminate it. This
is why the radical education reforms are essential — they shift
away from the concept that the only meaningful measure of  learning is passing an exam. There
is so much pressure on pupils and students — examinations no longer
assess whether the child has actually learnt or acquired any
competencies. They only determine where the child is being placed, this
university or that, or no place. We need to reexamine this type of testing as it no longer serves its intended purpose. More
immediately, we need to ensure that the playing field is even and no
one gets access to these exams ahead of time to the disadvantage of
others. This
explains why these steps are being taken. If there were more honesty,
the best way would be to lower undue expectations by parents and
children. But we are dealing with institutions fuelled by demands from
parents and everybody else that the child must pass, and score well. The child becomes a victim and is made to think they must succeed at whatever cost. We must reform this thinking and this system so that these exams do not represent the totality of a learner or a person. Secondary
schools should assess students' competencies, not scores. Many US and
other universities set up independent ways of assessing potential
students. So if it's aviation or actuarial science or education,
universities know what they want and delink it from school
examinations. In this way we might reduce the pressure and the militarisation of exams. The country coordinator of Uwezo East Africa spoke to the Star Click here for the latest political news