Two Marsabit MPs arrested over the skirmishes in parts of the county got a reprieve yesterday after a Milimani court declined the the DCI’s application to detain them for 21 days. At least 14 people have been killed and dozens of others displaced in the clashes between Borana and Gabra communities. North Hor and Saku MPs Chachu Ganya and Dido Raso are accused of incitement to violence and funding the raids. Detective Edward Mulongo sought to hold the the two legislators at Kileleshwa police station. In an affidavit filed by state counsel Kennedy Panyako, Mulongo said Raso is the parliamentary representative for the Horoder, Kubi Qalo and Jaldesa within which ethnic skirmishes between Borana and Gabra clans are being experienced. Mulongo said that on September 4, Raso distributed food, water and firearms to individuals residing within Horoder, which facilitated the conflicts between the two communities. He said between September 5 and October 17, armed bandits raided Horoder, Shur, Kubi Qalo and Jaldesa areas and innocent citizens were killed, property destroyed and several people displaced. Mulongo said he has information that Raso, in some instances, used his resources and influence and funded raids by providing support. The detective said Ganya responded by use of his resources and influence funding the raids by providing logistical support. He was seeking orders to hold Ganya. Read: Marsabit clashes: MPs Ganya, Rasso to be charged after night in cell “I have not recorded statements of the key witnesses who are still mourning and a number of victims nursing injuries sustained during the attacks,” he said in the affidavit. Mulongo said he intends to obtain evidence from the Cybercrime police unit, ballistics experts, conduct postmortem examinations on about 14 people killed in the skirmishes and obtain forensic investigations reports and also record statements of witnesses who reside in far-flug areas of Marsabit county which is yet to be done. But the legislators’ lawyers Okong’o Omogeni and Rodgers Sagana opposed the application. They said it lacked compelling reasons that should persuade the court to deny the accused persons their freedom. Omogeni said the suspects had initiated reconcilatory talks and they co-chair the peace talks committee. Senior principal magistrate Kennedy Cheruiyot released the two on a surety bond of Sh1 million and an alternative cash bail of Sh250,000. But they were directed to avail themselves to the investigating officers at the DCI headquarters as and when required. Read: Borana, Garba leaders vow to preach peace and end hostilities Click here for latest political news