Defending champions Telkom opened a nine-point lead in the top of the Kenya Hockey Union(KHU) Women’s Premier League following a routine 7-0 win against Sliders yesterday at City Park. Audrey Omaido led the onslaught where she netted three times to aid her side maintain an unbeaten run in the league. The lanky Omaido gave Telkom the  opener in the ninth minute, a goal which caught the Sliders defence flatfooted as they awaited for the umpire to give a short corner after Charity Miller intercepted Jackie Mwangi’s pass with the aid of her limp in the area. However, a quick thinking Omaido plundered the ball past the line before the whistle. Two minutes later Lilian Aura doubled the scores from Caroline Guchu’s well executed cross before Omaido completed her brace. The experienced Mwangi ensured the goals did not dry as she connected a long pass from Terry Juma to extend Telkom’s lead. A minute later, Telkom were celebrating again as Guchu sucessfully converted a flick kick to see her side break for the breather enjoying a 5-0 lead. Maureen Okumu and Omaido were on target in the 38th and 47th minutes of the second half to seal the rout. Following the win, Telkom took their tally to 30 points, nine ahead of second-placed Strathmore University Scorpions, who were not in action over the weekend, while Sliders remain third from bottom with seven points. Despite the big win Telkom’s head coach Jos Openda said he was not pleased with the team’s performance. He said: “Yes we have won the match but there is a little bit of laxity in the players. The midfield is still not strong as I expect it to be but I will address that in the training sessions.” His Sliders counterpart, Linnet Onyango said: “We made mistakes in the midfield and we were punished severely. It was a tough match but I still believe we have the chance to finish in a better rank.” Meanwhile, the race to remain in the men’s Premier League intensified as bottom-placed Western Jaguars recorded a 2-1 win over Wazalendo to improve their tally to 11 points. Nakuru capitalised on home advantage to beat KCA University 3-2 to move a place above the red line.