The government cannot stop maize importation because Kenya is a signatory to the international trade agreements including within the East African Community, CS Peter Munya has said. Last week, farmers called for a ban on the imports to shield the market from glut. The imports are mainly from Uganda and Tanzania. Munya on Friday said Kenya exports many products to other countries and it would be unwise to ban maize imports from Uganda and Tanzania. Farmers said the imports have flooded the markets, causing prices to drop to as low as Sh800 per 90kg bag. “There is nothing we can do about the imports. Our farmers have to look into ways of making money through value addition and other processes, instead of seeking unfair trade practices like blocking imports,” Munya said. More than three million bags of imported maize are on sale in Rift Valley and Western as farmers prepare for this year’s harvest. Munya spoke in Eldoret when he toured the New KCC factory. He was with company CEO Nixon Sigei. The two addressed farmers. The CS said the government has spent more than Sh1 billion to rehabilitate the factory. He urged farmers to step up production for maximum use of modern facilities installed at the factories in Eldoret, Sotik and Dandora. “The refurbished factory here in Eldoret has a capacity to take in 300,000 litres a day, yet farmers can bring in only about half of what is required,” Munya said. He praised Sigei and his team for turning around KCC’s profitability. The market share of the milk industry has increased to about 35 per cent. Farmers’ payments have increased to more than Sh5 billion annually. Munya said value addition will enable farmers to earn more. The farmers have been pushing the government to revert ownership of the company to them. Munya downplayed the matter. “What is important is the fact that farmers are getting value for their produce at the moment. They will get what they want at the right time,” he said. Sigei told the farmers to expect more benefits because the performance of the company is on an upward trend He attributed the turnaround to investment in expansion and modernisation of new factories.