The KCSE exam begins today. According to Knec timetable, French (oral and braille), German (oral), Arabic (oral), Kenyan Sign Language and Music (practicals) and Home Science (practicals) tests will start today until November 1. The Kenya National Examinations Council says Home Science practicals will take between 30-105 minutes. The rest will take 15 minutes. The Home Science braille practical test will be on November 1. Knec has put in place measures to ensure candidates’ safety. KCSE exam theory papers start on November 5 and end on November 29. Meanwhile, the KCPE exam will start on October 30, with pupils rehearsing a day earlier. Some 1.7 million candidates will sit the KSCE and KCPE exams — 1,060,703 in primary schools and 664,585 in secondary schools. The government has warned parents, teachers and candidates against cheating. Stern action will be taken against culprits, it said. The KCPE exam will be done across 27,161 centres, while KCSE will be in 10,077 centres. Read: No phones, school visits during KCSE and KCPE, teachers warned Yesterday, Knec chairman George Magoha said supervisors have checked exam centres to ensure the needed items are available. He said exam papers to be used are currently in subcounty offices and kept safely in containers. The government is using 459 containers to store the exams countrywide. “Over the last few years, the council has been trying to seal loopholes that might affect examinations. One of them is the delay encountered in transportation,” Magoha told the Star on the phone. “I can say that this year the problem will not be witnessed.” Education and Interior ministries have mapped out areas that will receive extra security. Each examination centre will have two police officers. Last month, Education CS Amina Mohamed said Narok North and South, Molo and Njoro subcounties were among areas where security would be stepped up. Other areas include Mandera, Garissa, Wajir and Lamu, which have had terror attacks in the past because of their close proximity to Somalia. Baringo, Pokot, Marsabit, Turkana, Isiolo and Tana River are on the security radar for possible interethnic conflicts. Also Read: Uhuru assures KCPE, KCSE candidates of fair and secure 2018 exams Click here for the latest political news