Eight governors have resolved to meet and revive the North Rift Economic Bloc (Noreb) that is on the verge of collapse. The governors, all from North Rift, have appointed former Nandi Deputy Governor Dominic Biwott the new CEO of the bloc. Biwott confirmed the county bosses would meet on Friday to discuss the way forward for the bloc, whose chairman is Uasin Gishu governor Jackson Mandago. Other county bosses expected to attend the Noreb conference include Patrick Khaemba (Trans Nzoia), Stephen Sang of Nandi, Josphat Nanok (Turkana), Alex Tolgos (Elgeyo Marakwet), John Lonyangapuo (West Pokot) and Stanley Kiptis of Baringo. Nanok, Khaemba and Mandago met in Eldoret last week and agreed to revive the bloc. They will use it to pursue common investments for the region among other plans, including initiatives to help maize farmers facing marketing challenges. Mandago said Trans Nzoia and Uasin Gishu are already in talks with the government of Qatar to start producing animal feeds for farmers to venture into value addition. They also plan diversification to minimise the losses they incur in maize farming. “As counties from the region, our farmers and even residents have common problems and that is why we must pull together as a bloc,” said Mandago on Friday. Noreb has been largely dormant for the last three years, compelling three member counties to join alternative blocs. Nandi and Trans Nzoia joined the Lake Region Economic Bloc (Loreb) while Elgeyo Marakwet joined the semi-arid counties to form another outfit. Mandago defended the decision by the counties to join the alternative groups, saying the counties are free to work with other outfits but they remained members of Noreb. Sang also confirmed that his county joined Loreb because farmers benefit. “We are in Loreb mainly for market purposes for our region but we also remain in Noreb as strong members,” said Sang. Last week, President Uhuru Kenyatta attended a Loreb summit in Bomet, where he said the government will come up with new mechanisms and legislation to support the regional economic blocs. Sang also said Nandi has adopted the Big Four agenda which will be aligned with a new development strategy for the region. The county last month unveiled a unique development strategy that will focus on integrating the Big Four and help mobilise internal and external resources. Sang said he believes Uhuru’s vision on affordable healthcare, manufacturing, food security and affordable housing will transform the country. Loreb is so far the most active economic bloc with 14 member counties already giving Sh200 million for the formation of a regional bank. Biwott says the new measures to revive Noreb will be implemented quickly so they implement joint projects to alleviate poverty in the region. Last month, the arid counties held a conference in West Pokot hosted by Lonyangapuo. Tolgos said his county shares the same characteristics with those under arid counties bloc and it should be included. “I am here today as an observer and I have already presented the request to be included in this bloc because this is where we belong,” Tolgos said.