The Homa Bay government has set aside Sh20million for the construction and completion of the blood bank at the County Teaching and Referral Hospital in the 2018-19 financial year. Another Sh22 million has already been spent to put up the facility, which once complete will reduce the rising number fo birth-related deaths. Health Committee chairman Maurice Ogwang said despite being the number one blood donor in the region, the county is yet to put up a fully equipped facility to help store blood. “We are concerned about the rising number of deaths being caused by lack of transfusion blood, especially to expectant women. The facility will be up and running as soon as possible,” he said. Ogwang said the committee is drafting a bill for productive health, which will ensure no mother loses life while giving birth. He said they also have plans to ensure operation theatres are installed in all subcounty hospitals and to renovate the referral hospital. Medical services director Kevin Osuri said the county is hiring more gynaecologists to help in safe delivery among expectant women, in case of any complication. “Currently we only have one gynaecologist. However, we are employing more and even involving the services of other experts and consultants,” he said. REMOVING BARRIERS The national government is ramping up efforts to tackle the problem. Important steps to increase access to skilled obstetric care nationwide include removing financial barriers to care through the free maternity provision policy. Introduced in 2013, it is expected to drive more women to give birth in health facilities. Another measure is the “Beyond Zero” Campaign, launched in 2013 by First Lady Margret Kenyatta under the slogan: “No woman should die while giving life.” It aims to strengthen emergency services for mothers and children by providing fully equipped mobile clinics to the counties with the highest burden of maternal deaths. When she donated a mobile clinic van to Homa Bay in 2014, Margaret said major drivers of maternal deaths include lack of access to health facilities, where women have to travel long distances to seek crucial services, and poor uptake of antenatal services. Pregnant women, she said, are discouraged from going to health centers due to their lack of essential materials and services, which force patients to buy their own delivery kits and take with them to the hospital at the time of delivery.