An MP has launched an ambitious bid to reduce the number of Cabinet slots from the current 22 to 14, and wants the CSs to be picked from the National Assembly. West Mugirango MP Vincent Kemosi has written to the Speaker of the National Assembly Justin Muturi notifying him of his intention to sponsor a Constitutional amendment Bill. The legislator is seeking to amend Article 152(1) which says Cabinet secretaries will not be fewer than 14 and not more than 22, and Article 152 (3), which states that a Cabinet Secretary shall not be a Member of Parliament. "The objective of the Bill is to reduce the bloated wage bill, and ensure MPs have an opportunity to ask Cabinet ministers in the House questions and issues affecting their constituencies," Kemosi says in his letter dated October 2. He adds: "The name Cabinet secretaries be changed to Cabinet ministers, and where all Articles of the Constitution where there is a mention of Cabinet Secretary or secretaries, the same be amended to refer to Cabinet Minister. Create a provision of hybrid system of governance, where MPs will be appointed ministers". As per the 2010 Constitution, the Cabinet is made up of the President, Deputy President, Attorney General and a maximum of 22 ministries, who must be be vetted by Parliament before their appointment. A hybrid system is a mix of presidential and parliamentary systems, in which the electorate directly elects a President as the head of government and MPs as lawmakers, from whom ministers are appointed. Read: Cut number of legislators, commissioners to save billions - Controller of Budget The presidential system gave chairpersons of parliamentary committees more mandate to respond to questions on the floor of the House on behalf of ministers. Cabinet secretaries only appear before MPs when summoned by departmental committees, although their attendance has been erratic, often drawing the wrath of MPs. Having ministers, appointed from amongst MPs is an idea that has gained traction in recent times, with the majority of MPs from the ruling jubilee and the opposition NASA. If the proposed changes will sail through the National Assembly and the Senate , it would mean the current system of government changes from purely presidential to the hybrid, which was the case before the 2010 Constitution. This Bill by Kemosi — which is yet to be published — appears to be a sister to one proposed by Tiaty MP William Kamket. The Bill whose steam has since died down was proposing a creation of the office of the Prime Minister who runs the government and a ceremonial President. The Bill also proposed the reintroduction of the leader of the Opposition and that the cabinet secretaries should also originate from Parliament. Also Read: Aukot wants woman rep post abolished, MPs reduced to 194 Click here for the latest political news