It's not just you. On Tuesday, Twitter sent users a bizarre string of push notifications that looked as if someone mashed a bunch of buttons on their keyboard, then hit send. CEO Jack Dorsey apparently got the notifications, too, and it didn't take long before the firm figured out what was behind the bug. The issue appeared to originate from a coding error. "You know those red bubbles that appear when you get notifications?" Twitter's Support account tweeted. "Usually, you wouldn’t see this in numbers and code, but that’s how we talk to your phone so you get those notifications. It's fixed, we're good." That post was retweeted by Twitter's main account, which cheekily added: "Well, that was weird." Users began reporting the issue earlier Tuesday afternoon. The notifications contained random strings of letters and numbers, followed by a colon, then one or two numbers at the end. It only appeared for users who had push notifications turned on for Twitter's mobile app. Users of the Android app or third-party clients, such as TweetDeck or Hootsuite, didn't seem to encounter the problem. When users tap on the notification, it only opens up the notifications tab on the app and, not, as some may have hoped, a VIP Twitter experience. However, it was enough to prompt a response from Dorsey, who said: 'We're seeing this issue too. On it.' "Should be fixed now. Working to understand why it happened," he added in another tweet at about 12:50p.m. (ET). As with any typical Twitter glitch, users quickly took to the site to turn it into a joke. Many quipped that Twitter was 'broken' as a result of the bug, while others called people who receive push notifications from Twitter 'masochists.' "Oh god, it's trying to find the launch codes," developer Andy Baio wrote in a tweet. Some even hypothesized that it could mark aliens' arrival on Earth. "What are these Twitter notifications? Are the aliens here?," said Washington Post reporter Isabelle Khurshudyan in a tweet. Yet another user joked that one of Twitter's interns had leaked social security numbers via the push notifications. Mail Online has reached out to Twitter for further comment. Click here for the latest political news