Nyandarua MCAs have blamed the supremacy battle between Governor Francis Kimemia and speaker Wahome Ndegwa for slow development. The MCAs on Saturday said the war was derailing growth and could cost them their seats in 2022. But Kimemia distanced himself from the war, saying he was not fighting the speaker. There are two factions in the assembly with one supporting Ndegwa and other Kimemia. "You the MCAs elected the speaker just like I was elected by voters. My administration is not fighting anybody. So let ebveryone keep to their lane," Kimemia said. He spoke at Ol Joro Orok Stadium during Mashujaa Day celebrations. There was a war of wordWar of words ensued during Mashujaa day celebrations at Ol joro orok stadium as leaders apportioned blame on the persisting stalemate which has hampered development in Nyandarua. The stalemate has been blamed on the war of supremacy pitying Governor Francis Kimemia against Speaker Wahome Ndegwa, and which has resulted to faction wars in the Nyandarua assembly one supporting the speaker and the other the governor. Governor Francis Kimemia apologized to the public but distanced himself from the wrangles in the assembly, saying his administration is not fighting anybody. Kimemia said just like the MCAs, he was elected by Nyandarua residents who woke up at 4am to perform this Constitutional mandate. In turn, he said, the MCAs elected speaker. “You, the MCAs elected the Speaker. He is an assembly official. I was elected by thousands of residents of Nyandarua and my role is defined. Let everyone keep to their lane”, he said Kimemia was responding to Weru MCA Mbogo Mburu and Kinyanjui Njatha (Engineer) said Kimemia and Ndegwa were the reasons for chaos in the assembly. Njatha said such wrangles were derailing development. Mburu said he cannot keep quiet because the electorate want him to perform. “I will speak the truth because I'm troubled leader when two important personalities engage in endless war. I beseech you to abandon your political hardlines for the sake of those who fought for our independence. Otherwise the county will collapse," Mburu said. The MCA said the differences between Kimemia and Ndegwa had ballooned. “I pray that the electorate hold you accountable if this county fails," Mburu told Kimemia. Kimemia said there were people propagating a narrative that he was at loggerheads with the speaker. He blamed the Speaker for not recognising the change of leadership as decided by majority of Jubilee MCAs, saying doing so will bring peace. “That is all that is required. But closing the assembly and fighting journalists and other people will not bring development,” Kimemia said. MCAs have replaced the leadership of the assembly but Ndegwa said the changes were illegal.  