West Pokot governor John Lonyangapuo wants the government to mop up illegal guns in the hands of criminals and flush out bandits hiding in forests along the volatile West Pokot-Elgeyo Marakwet border. He has also called for fresh vetting of national police reservists.  “The government needs to take the guns back and vet the reservists afresh since the guns are not helping in beefing up security in the region. Some of them are sleeping with the guns in their houses without doing the work,” he said. Lonyangapuo also asked the government to arrest those behind a wave of crime in the region. He called for deployment of more security personnel.The governor asked the government to establish permanent security and anti-stock theft camps in the area. He said politicians should not fuel the crisis, but rather focus on development. Speaking during Mashujaa Day celebrations at Makutano Stadium in Kapenguria, Lonyangapuo urged the government to initiate more development projects in the region and promote education. West Pokot County commissioner Apollo Okello said they are committed to ensuring peace prevails. “We shall try to unite the residents. We urge leaders not to incite them. Leaders from Marakwet should help us in maintaining peace. We have put measures in place to ensure exams are successful,” he said. Okello said that for a long time the communities been engaged in protracted armed raids that have impacted negatively on their socio-economic livelihoods.Kapenguria Mp Samuel Moroto said the two communities are now living in peace and called on the government to boost security to mop up bandits along the border. “We are sending you with a message to the presidents that we don’t want guns in this place, we have lost our loved ones and property destroyed because of conflict,” said Moroto“The Government should employ youths in the area for peace to be restored.Youths in the area are involved in banditry because of unemployment and poverty,” said Moroto . He said residents along the border currently lack basic services as he called on other donors to move in to improve livelihood along the border.