A showdown looms between police and squatters at Nguu Tatu in Kisauni constituency today over a 60-acre piece of land. The squatters had on Friday asked for 14 days to allow them to file a counter case at the Supreme Court to stop Bandari Sacco, which lays claim to the land, from reconstructing a perimeter wall around the land. The squatters made the request through their chairman Martin Chiponda during a meeting with the Kisauni security committee chaired by deputy county commissioner Kipchumba Ruto. Both Bandari Sacco and the squatters lay claim to the piece of land. The sacco claims it bought the land in 2011 from Hussein Dairy Farm for more than Sh300 million and there was no one on the land at the time. The squatters, on the other hand, claim they have been living on the land for more than 10 years. Ruto on Friday urged the squatters and the sacco to resolve their dispute amicably. “What we want is peace and tranquility,” he said. Yesterday, Ruto said the squatters had requested they be allowed the 14 days on humanitarian grounds. “There is a court order to be implemented. We were taking notice to them,” he said on the phone.Yesterday, it emerged senior police officers had dismissed the Friday meeting and instructed Bandari Sacco to go ahead and reconstruct the perimeter wall. “The boss was shocked. He could not believe it. He has ordered police to ensure the contractor is given sufficient security as he embarks on building the wall,” a police officer privy to the case told the Star. A High Court order allows the sacco to reconstruct the wall. Contractor Henpoint Kenya Limited has already moved to the site and is ready to start reconstruction, seven months after the squatters pulled down the wall in protest. The wall had cost Sh30 million to put up. Henpoint said it is working under a tight schedule. “The more the delay, the bigger the cost for us because we have already contracted workers who expect to be paid. We have also been incurring storage costs,” Henry Otieno of Henpoint said. Chiponda said squatters will not allow the wall to be built until their case is filed and heard at the Supreme Court. “We have to follow laid down procedures. We have stay orders from the court,” he said. Bandari Sacco had no representative at the Friday meeting.