Following what is happening to my favourite TV anchor Jacque Maribe, I have opted to take a more clinical and serious look at life. I was at a friend’s memorial mass at Nairobi Chapel and the pastor kept insisting we turn to our neighbors like five times. I was getting agitated but now I understand what the pastor was trying to do, because our neighbors are not what they seem to be. Plus life online and life offline are two different things! When you follow someone online, liking the photo they post or status updates, not to mention videos, don’t assume you know someone. Because that same person offline might be a totally different animal altogether. Check our JM read the news once in while. Or when I bumped into her randomly, I didn’t picture her fixing a wall with unga ya chapati to hide a bullet hole! I’m so old school in the sense that I believe neighbours still borrow salt and phone chargers and not illegal/legal firearms... How does that conversation even start? “Nigesh hiyo bunde/pistol/Bastolla niende hivi nakam.” How does that happen? I remember growing up in South C and me en my neighbors, we borrowed clothes and shoes. Sometimes we retired, sometimes we didn’t! But that was it. When I was growing up, me en my pals or neighbours covered up for each other. It was normal, like if I stole my parent’s car to go to the club or lied I was sleeping at my boys’ house, that was standard. But we never covered up a shooting; that’s some next-level shit! But then again, that was then, this is now. Times have changed, plus with global warming, compounded with magical handshakes, anything can happen! We have neighbours who snitch on their neighbors, who have Sh1 billion in cash at their residence, fake or not. Who keeps a billion in their apartment? We need to know our friends and neighbours beyond online. That’s the only way to survive or avoid getting called to the police station to be interrogated. In fact, before anyone decides to move in with a stranger for love or otherwise, I think doing a background check and getting a certificate of good conduct is also important in this day and age... #TheRaverend recommends getting a letter of referral from previous relationships. Kenyans need to demand for a recommendation letter from their area chief, church elder, the principal of primary and high school, not to mention a written communication from at least two family members... #TheRaverend would also like to ask Kenyans to start celebrating hardworking Kenyan mamas/chics/madame wa Nairobi who hustle and put in work. Pushing themselves daily, breaking their backs in that 8-5 jobo or even college or university, without cutting short cuts of getting a sponyo or sleeping with a married man who’s older than their grandfather... The chicks with legit side hustle and not a side dish! Ladies who are independent and honest, not just independent because Beyoncé or Neyo said it in a song... #TheRaverend is talking about ladies who own. Mulika Techno Infinix smartphone that they bought for themselves, not the iPhone XS and Samsung 10 plus operators, who have no clue how much the phone costs but are busy using the expensive gadgets to take photos and slaying for the ’gram with no care... So if you’re that true legit lady’ hustling and owning what your have worked for, doing conventional work and not other type of work that involves your bonnet and boot being opened and you’re not a car or mechanic, please know that #TheRaverend appreciates you and all Kenyan dudes respect you... Don’t allow slay divas to confuse you with all that glam and pam on the ’gram because that’s the quickest way to short-circuit your life or get caught up in a never-ending drama that will likely get you first-class accommodation in Langata Women’s Prison... Appreciate and respect your struggles and hustle, en the Ma-Yolo will be everlasting and worth it! ION, this is the 1st weekend of October and #TheRaverend has decided to go on an all-liquid detox diet for a week. No solid food, no keroro, en my radio wife Adelle Onyango, who’s back from NYC, is taking bets to see if I will beat the challenge or nah. Adelle doesn’t think #TheRaverend will manage, that’s why she’s taking bets from #TeamAdelle x #TeamShaffie instead of supporting me! Question: Who’s are you putting your bets on?