The Building Bridges team has cancelled its tour of Ukambani following complaints from local leaders who said they were sidelined. The 14-member team was scheduled to tour the region next week. residents also said they were not included in the team's plans. Ukambani leaders want the taskforce to fully involve regional leaders in their tours to collect views from the public. The taskforce is chaired by Garissa senator Yusuf Haji. On Wednesday, Haji and his co-chair Adams Oloo issued a notice postponing the visits to Makueni, Kitui and Machakos. The team was to tour the counties on Tuesday and Wednesday for views on the handshake. “Across section of stakeholders from the three counties have raised a number of cross cutting concerns and suggestions ranging from short notice, venues and representations during the deliberations,” Haji said. He said the team postponed its tour to a “later date” on grounds its work is guided by the “spirit of participation and inclusiveness.” The team was set up following the March 9 handshake between President Uhuru Kenyatta and Opposition chief Raila Odinga to reconcile and unite the country. Makueni Senator Mutula Kilonzo Jnr and Kathiani MP Robert Mbui told the Star they had not been informed about the team's visit. “The Building Bridges initiative aims at bringing all people together. Before the team makes any attempt of going to a region, it should ensure elected and opinion leaders are involved,” Mbui said. Mbui said involving regional leaders will ensure maximum cooperation by residents. “We should also be consulted. You cannot go to our backyards without involving us. This will be creating more conflict,” Mbui said. He added that they are ready to receive the taskforce because every Kenyan is eager to see a united country. The Ukambani tour was one of the 10 visits the team has scheduled across the country. The second tour was to take place in Upper Eastern region with meetings in Meru (October 30), Isiolo (October 31) and Lumuruti in Laikipia on November 2. “The dates for Upper Eastern and Coast, however, remain the same,” the statement said. The team will tour the Coast from November 6 with a meeting in Malindi and another in Mombasa on November 7. The taskforce will then tour Central, Western, Nyanza, North and South Rift, Nairobi and North Eastern. Haji said the dates will be set after public consultations.