Security personnel in Malindi and Magarini yesterday arrested 41 squatters, among them Sabaki MCA Edward Delle for allegedly invading the Agricultural Development Corporation Kisiwani complex farm. The MCA and squatters were nabbed in the morning after they regrouped at Kwandomo area to continue with the ‘sub-division’ of the 950 acres. Tension was high following the MCA’s arrest as hundreds of locals protested, forcing Police to lob teargas to disperse the rowdy crowd. Delle on Sunday led squatters to the land and directed them to begin allocating themselves land each to get at least an acre as their “efforts to get the land through the proper channels had failed”. Reports indicate the legislator had organised the squatters to go to the farm in Magarini. He, however, did not know that security were on high alert to prevent him from gaining access. When they converged to begin the process, police led by their commander approached them and sought to know who was behind the meeting. The MCA responded by saying he was the one leading the squatters and immediately was told to step aside. A contingent of security personnel drawn from administration, regular and Kenya prisons kept vigil at the land while the locals staged demonstrations in protest against the arrest. Another group also came to the Malindi police headquarters and camped outside the station demanding the release of their leader. Another delegation of county assembly officials including speaker Jimmy Kahindi and over 10 MCAs also went to the police station, but left after efforts to release him immediately were futile. They returned at 4pm and were still trying to get him released by the time of going to press. Some of those arrested were women and elderly men who were among the squatters invading the ADC Kisiwani. Sources from the police said the MCA could be charged with incitement. The other 40 squatters may be charged with preparation to commit a felony. Among those arrested was Stembo Kaviha, the secretary of Sabaki Residents Association who has argued the squatters should be on the land. On Sunday, Kaviha and Delle told squatters to take position and take what is rightfully theirs. They conducted rituals at a gravesite they said belonged to one of their ancestors. They poured mnazi at the site.