County governments have accumulated a whopping Sh108.4 billion in pending bills, pointing to serious financial challenges that still dog the roll out of devolution. And according to a report by Controller of Budget Agnes Odhiambo, governors and MCAs are still blowing up billions in non-core expenditures like foreign trips and sitting allowances. The huge pending bills have caused untold suffering to contractors and suppliers who are threatened by auctioneers as banks seize their assets to recover unpaid loans. According to the budget implementation review report for 2017/2018 Financial Year, Nairobi county leads the pack in pending bills amounting to Sh64.8 billion. The debts were largely incurred during the tenure of the city council and former ex-Nairobi Governor Evans Kidero but the current county chief Mike Sonko has been reluctant to pay. Surprisingly, however, even counties with re-elected governors are also choking in pending bills. Mombasa county under Governor Hassan Joho has pending bills of Sh3 billion while Martin Wambora’s Embu owes Sh1.3 billion. Kilifi led by Amason Kingi has a backlog of Sh1.2 billion, Samuel Tunai’s Narok Sh1.7 billion and Kwale under Salim Mvurya a whopping Sh1.8 billion debt. Other counties under heavy debt include Kericho (Sh1.2 billion), Nyamira (Sh1.3 billion), Nyeri (Sh1.4 billion) and Busia (Sh993.6 million). “These bills were attributed to failure by the counties to effectively align their procurement plans to cash flow plans and delay by the National Treasury to disburse national transfers to the county governments in a timely manner,” the report concludes. The Controller of Budget recommends that county governments should ensure effective management of pending bills by “aligning procurement plans to cash flow projections as well as ensuring that their budgets consider pending bills [as a first charge] before any new projects.” However, the biggest mess is in counties where new governors believe most of the pending bills left by their predecessors are fictitious. There is a Sh2.3 billion pending bill in Nakuru, Sh2 billion debt in both Kisumu and Meru and Sh2.6 billion in Wajir. In Nakuru, ex-governor Kinuthia Mbugua was kicked out by Lee Kinyajui while Kisumu’s Jack Ranguma was defeated by Prof. Anyang' Nyo'ngo. In Meru, Governor Kiraitu Murungi ousted Peter Munya while Governor Mohamed Abdi kicked out Ahmed Abdullahi. Sonko and Kiraitu are among a host of governors who have constituted teams to audit the huge bills left by their predecessors. TRAVEL According to the budget review report, county governments incurred Sh11.4 billion on domestic and foreign travel. This comprised of Sh9.86 billion in domestic travel and Sh1.5 billion spent on foreign travel. Yesterday, the Star exclusively reported how national government agencies spent billions on non-essentials despite the rising tax burden. Parliament gobbled up Sh4.3 billion in both domestic and foreign trips while the presidency, comprising Uhuru, his deputy Ruto and the Cabinet office, spent Sh725 million on local travel and a further Sh99.4 million on foreign trips. Odhiambo, however, notes a slight reduction of 6.5 per cent in the travel expenditure compared to the previous financial year when the counties spent Sh12.15 billion on local and overseas trips. The revelations come hot on the heels of last week’s circular requiring MCAs to be cleared by the Ministry of Devolution before any travel abroad as part of the new financial austerity measures. There is no similar requirement for members of Parliament or governors. Nairobi county reported the highest expenditure on domestic and foreign travel at Sh599.61 million, followed by Kisii and Kitui at Sh485.6 million and Sh483.67 million respectively. Counties that incurred the lowest expenditure were Tharaka Nithi (Sh115.3 million), Elgeyo Marakwet (Sh74.01 million) and Samburu (Sh52.03 million). Theya re also counties with markedly low allocations from the revenue commission. County assemblies spent Sh1.46 billion on MCAs’ sitting allowances, the report shows. But five county assemblies exceeded the Salaries and Remuneration Commission sitting allowance ceiling for MCAs —Sh80,000 monthly These include Kakamega where MCAs pocketed an average of Sh124,800 per month, Marsabit (Sh120,968) and Tana River (Sh93,599). Others are Vihiga at Sh85,453 and Taita Taveta (Sh80,76) per month. Nairobi county collected the highest amount of local revenue (Appropriations-in-Aid) at Sh10.11 billion followed by Mombasa (Sh3.16 billion) and Nakuru at Sh2.28 billion. Lamu (Sh55.29 million), Tana River (Sh56.63 million) and Mandera (Sh61.82 million) collected the lowest revenues according to the report which shows only three counties exceeded their budget targets. They are Tana River (56,625,198) Migori (222,251,290) and Kwale (276,295,129). “The low performance of local revenue collections should be addressed to avoid hidden budget deficits and facilitate full implementation of planned activities. We advise counties to develop and implement strategies to mobilize own source revenue collection,” Odhiambo said. The report says that county governments spent an aggregate of Sh151.09 billion on personnel emoluments — mostly salaries — which accounted for 49.7 per cent of the total expenditure. Only three counties — Kilifi, Marsabit and Mandera — reported expenditure on personnel remuneration that was within the maximum allowed limit of 35 per cent of their total expenditure. Odhiambo has warned that high expenditure on salaries and allowances is unsustainable as it will crowd out spending on development activities. “There is therefore, need for county governments to ensure that this expenditure is contained at sustainable levels,” she stated. Counties with the highest ratio of remuneration out of the total expenditure were Machakos (65.3 per cent), Taita Taveta (64.4 per cent) and Meru (63.9 per cent).     