If you're sitting there wondering how time flies, or how we got to October 20 after struggling all September, all I can tell you is it’s October babyyyy!!! October is a party month. Everything happens in October, hence, OctberFest because all gigs pop during this time of the year...Every weekend in October is busy, sometimes with two to three major gigs happening...So many things happen in October that it's a challenge, even for #TheRaverend, to keep tabs on everything. We had Kanye en Kim in Uganda, not a big deal...Tanzania's only billionaire was abducted over a week ago and is still missing, even after the family offered a reward of 1 billion Bongo shillings. Bobi Wine was in town for a week and Harambee Stars beat Ethiopia 3-0 at Kasarani! Sany is threatening to make a comeback as Kenyans are distracted with all the festivals and countdown to Christmas...Residents of Seefar Apartments in Nairobi are having sleepless nights after Warma/Nema issued a notice to vacate. ION, the most talked about murder case ( the victim was Monica)...The courts are still holding TV girl Jacque Maribe and fiancé Joseph 'Jowie' Irungu in remand after they took a plea a week ago...In Jacque's defence she has decided to see the light and not allow love to conquer all by distancing herself from her fiancé and whatever the cops claim he did or did not do....#TheRaverend would like to speak to all lovebirds who believe that they can do anything for love...The guys who take musician Bruno Mars literally! Love is a wonderful thing according to Nigerian superstar Dbanj, but I doubt it's wonderful enough for anyone to give up their career or life for...Don’t it get twisted, I’m all about having Bae’s back en supporting Bae and standing by Bae but in normal circumstances only. Terms And Conditions Apply. I’m down with supporting Bae say in the club, at the bar when her family is acting the fool, but not when it comes to matters that will affect my freedom or get me a one-way ticket to Kamiti Prison...My love for Bae stops when cops get involved, when my freedom and sanity are threatened. Lovebirds need to have a snitch button that they activate real quick no matter how dickmatized one is or how good the Peniscelline is...No one should let dicklofenac dicktate or confuse them in the name of true love...True love is a myth and only happens in movies...#TheRaverend has an imaginary love button that I switch off quick anytime I see I have over fallen in the mix....#TheRaverend would like to urge peeps to be extra selfish and love themselves more before you get caught up in a situation and blame it on love. I will leave you with some legalese unleashed by socialite Corazon Kwamboka: 1. Make a report to the police. 2. Convince the ‘criminal’ to go forward. Do not try to be ride or die or you will be riding together to prison. In case you failed to make a report here are some of the defences 1. Mistake of fact; where yours was a genuine mistake as to what you friend or partner did or was about to do. Eg, they ask to borrow a knife and you give them thinking they are going to chop tomatoes but they butcher their wife with it. 2. Abandonment; if you stopped offering you help on time and therefore made it hard or impossible for the principal to commit the crime. 3. Withdrawal; ‘I didn’t help because it was wrong, and I tried to take away the gun so he wouldn’t kill her.'