President Kenyatta has asked counties to create frameworks for combating eff ects of climate change.  “The implementation of the climate change actions is the responsibility of all stakeholders at all levels including the state (national and sub-national governments) and non-state actors (the marginalised/ indigenous communities, private sector, the youth and women),” the President said yesterday. He said climate change is a matter of life and death for Africa. “We have all experienced the devastating and unprecedented impacts of climate change on our peoples’ lives and livelihoods as well as our national economies.Africa is the most vulnerable continent despite contributing only about 4 per cent to global greenhouse gas emissions,” he said. The President made the remarks in a speech read by Environment CS Keriako Tobiko at Safari Park Hotel, Nairobi, during the opening of the seventh conference on climate change and development in Africa. The event attracted over 700 participants including researchers,policy makers, development banks, intergovernmental agencies, civil society and media. The theme of this year’s conference is, “Policies and actions for eff ective implementation of the Paris Agreement for resilient economies in Africa”. President Kenyatta’s remarks come days after an alarming report was released by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. The report shows that limiting global warming to 1.50C would require rapid, far-reaching and unprecedented changes in all aspects of human life. Kenyatta said Kenya is embracing new technologies in climate smart agriculture, building, health and resource efficient manufacturing to achieve it development agenda. “As part of tapping into the opportunities in biodiversity, Kenya will be hosting the first Sustainable Blue Economy Conference between November 26 and 28 to promote sustainable investments in oceans, seas, lakes, and rivers,” he said. Tobiko urged scientists to package messages on climate change in ways communities understand. Vihiga governor Wilbur Otichilo said counties should commit themselves on how they are going to address effects of climate change. Click here for the latest political news