A new survey shows a majority of Kenyans, particularly the youth, are opposed to calls for a referendum even as a Constitution review debate rages. It further reveals that a majority of Nasa supporters, 63.2 per cent, are against the proposed review. Only 36.8 per cent back the proposal. In Jubilee, 54.9 per cent oppose the calls, but a significant 45.1 per cent think it is time for a review. Among opposition supporters, Moses Wetang’ula’s Ford Kenya leads with 84.6 per cent opposed to calls for Constitutional changes. A paltry 15.4 per cent would like the law overhauled. More Wiper supporters than ODM, the poll showed, were in support of the referendum at 60 per cent and 56.5 per cent respectively. Forty per cent and 43.5 per cent of Wiper and ODM supporters respectively do not endorse the push. The survey, interestingly, shows that 100 per cent of former presidential candidate Ekuru Aukot’s Third Way Alliance supporters are totally opposed to moves to change the current Constitution. Aukot is in the forefront pushing for the changes and has been collecting signatures to push for change. Read: Raila says Constitutional changes will help fix Kenya’s perennial ills The survey funded by the Star Newspaper shows that 56 per cent of Kenyans do not support calls for referendum while 44 per cent are in support. A majority of those opposed to the idea are youths. The opinion poll conducted between October 12 and 14 shows that majority of those opposed to referendum calls are aged between 18 to 35 years. One thousand respondents – male and female - aged 18 to 49 years were surveyed. The polls margin of error is +/- 3 per cent with a 95 per cent confidence level. Middle-aged Kenyans between 40-49 are however supportive of Constitutional amendments with an overwhelming 56 per cent. Only 44 per cent of youth between ages 18–24 back a referendum, while 56 per cent hold the opposite view. The study conducted through computer-aided telephone interviews, in 26 counties representative of all regions, reveals the highest number, 62 per cent, of those between the age of 30-34 years are opposed to any law change with only 38 per cent supportive. The respondents, both urban and rural, were picked through random sampling. Nairobi, Kiambu, Mombasa, Isiolo, Garissa, Bomet, Nandi, Kisumu, Kakamega, Turkana, Machakos, Meru, Siaya, Uasin Gishu, Kajiado and Nakuru were among the 26 counties surveyed. Sixty per cent between the ages of 35-39 are strongly opposed while 40 per cent in the same age bracket believe there is reason to support change. In the ongoing referendum debate, the pro-change group think the current structure is bloated and needs to be reviewed by scrapping the Senate, reducing the number of MPs and merging counties.  Proponents are also pushing for an executive prime minister and a ceremonial president. Leading the group calling for far-reaching ovehaul is opposition chief Raila Odinga and Kanu chairman Gideon Moi. Both have declared that a referendum is inevitable. Read: Moses Kuria tells off Raila over Constitution change DP William Ruto on the other hand has been ambivalent, blowing hot and cold, but insists he will not accept the creation of new jobs in the executive. On Saturday while in Kiambu county, Ruto said Jubilee will not be distracted by calls for a referendum. “I am not available for the referendum. I am busy consolidating the legacy of the President and the realisation of the Jubilee Manifesto. Let those pursuing it do so. My hands are full and I cannot be forced into it,” he said. He said referendum proponents should tell Kenyans why they want changes, and details of the proposed changes. Yesterday, Devolution Cabinet Secretary Eugene Wamalwa, Cotu secretary general Francis Atwoli and Kakamega Senator Cleophas Malala criticised Ruto over the review debate. Kenyans should go to the ballot since they are already in the referendum mood. The trio said the referendum debate should not be personalised. “Let us not ask whether the Constitution should be amended or not, let us ask which clauses of the Constitution should be amended to improve and make it better. Let’s work together to address issues, not personalise the debate on referendum, we make a Constitution not for ourselves but for prosperity to make Kenya more just, inclusive and equitable,” Wamalwa said. Wamalwa said before the 2010 Constitution’s passage, majority of Kenyans agreed that 80 per cent of the Constitution was good, while 20 per cent was bad. Atwoli said the Constitution must be amended before the next general elections to ensure peace during and after elections. “The need for the referendum is that whenever Kenyans go to elections, 2.5 million citizens, Cotu members suffer due to violence. Roads become impassable across the country as a result of post-election violence while leaders enjoy police protection, we must revisit the Constitution,” Atwoli said. The leaders spoke during a fundraiser at St. Christopher Catholic Church in Kyumvi, Machakos County, yesterday. Atwoli said Cotu’s legal department is working on a draft to be presented to the relevant authorities for debate. He said workers suffer more whenever Kenyans fight. “The mood of the country is that we must go to the next elections with a new Constitution, we will amend the Constitution,” Atwoli said. “There are people who do not want us to amend the Constitution, we must re-look at it again. There are many commissioners with duplicate roles, wastage in government must stop. As much as there is corruption, the wastage in government must also stop,” Atwoli said. “Tell DP William Ruto that he is the one we are helping so that he does not return to The Hague, he should not personalise the referendum debate.” Malala said changes in the Constitution will provide an inclusive executive. “Our analysis is that since independence, only two tribes have been revolving in power. No tribe has ever produced a President other than Kikuyu and Kalenjin, when will other tribes produce president.” said Malala. More: Constitution changes opposed Click here for the latest political news