M urang’a Majority leader Erick Kamande was recently  arrested near Ndakaini Dam where MCAs had gathered to  collect public views on how they would like to benefit from the Nairobi water projects in the county. Among them is the  Sh6.8 billion World Bank-funded Northern Water Collector Tunnel. The assembly has proposed 25 per cent share of revenue generated from the resource be paid to the county. And speaking at Nairobi’s ASK show, Governor Mike Sonko gave a stern warning to his Murang’a counterpart against demanding the 25 per cent share. He went ahead to personalise the war between the two counties by threatening to demolish houses built on riparian land in his county, allegedly by Wa Iria as if he means Murang’a and vice versa. Away from the political noise  on who should pay who or what, there is need  to understand how we got here to avoid the recurrence of the much destructing acrimony. In 2016, Raila Odinga  castigated the construction of the tunnel and termed it the “tunnel of death”. It draws water from rivers Maragua, Gikigii and Irati and stretches 12 km from Ndakaini dam. It is a project the locals are not happy with because, despite being in place for over 20 years, Ndakaini Dam has not been beneficial to them. Ahead of the last year’s election, Raila called for the immediate termination of the project arguing the project is devastating to the entire Tana Delta. Murang’a governor said Raila was “politicising” the water issue and assured residents the project will be harmless and will be supplied with tap water. But why has the narrative changed? In 2016, Murang’a water was a hot potato that no serious politician wanted to touch. I remember contacting one of the area MPs who refused to comment but promised to do so after the election. Sensing Raila intended to use the project as a political tool against his Uhuru Kenyatta, the politicians watered down the concerns the NASA candidate raised.  They won the battle but not the war. These politicians are now facing the realities they so stealthily disregarded. Reality number one is that the three rivers will not rely on their overflow to feed Ndakaini Dam as the government wants us to believe. As a matter of fact, we only have two rain seasons —  in April and in October — the only months the said overflows may be realised. So, is Athi Water Board insinuating Sh7 billion is being invested in a “seasonal project”?  A project that will be seasonal? The  reality is that the three rivers will be drained  throughout the year. Reality two is that Murang’a will now or in the future require as much water as Nairobi. This will be informed by the population increase in the county, thanks to devolution. It will, therefore, not make any economic sense for Murang’a to sell “its” water to Nairobi and later  buy from other counties. The other reality is that Nairobi has rivers that pass through the county, which have been turned into sewer lines. These rivers include Nairobi, Mbagathi, Karura, Karurui and Ruiru. Why not clean this water and see how to tap it for use? The two counties should dialogue, not about payments but how much time Nairobi should  be given to rehabilitate the rivers, hence stop soley relying on Murang’a or any other county for water  for it’s drastic growing population. Former Environment minister John Michuki had successfully cleaned up the river.Why is it hard for Sonko to so? Inasmuch as water is a national natural resource and therefore not devolved, there is need for Parliament to make laws that require  each county to safeguard her water to make it safe for human consumption before sourcing from another county. With the safeguards, Nairobi will have enough water. There are lessons to take from London on the use of River Thames.