AFC Leopards interim manager Tom ‘Gaza’ Juma has denied claims that the players sabotaged recently sacked Argentine head coach Rodolfo Zapata. Juma, who served as Zapata’s assistant took over the reigns last week after the latter was asked to step aside for posting poor results amid reports that he had lost control of his dressing room. In his debut at the dugout, Juma had a weekend to forget after succumbing 2-1 to Ulinzi Stars and extend the team’s winless run to four matches. The former Kenyan international quashed the existence of a rift between the playing unit and the departed Argentine and has insisted that the poor run has been largely contributed by injuries. There had been reports that players were not pleased with Zapata’s style of training and tactics and hence wanted him out. Juma said defenders Robinson Kamura, Dennis Sikhayi and Moses Mburu are yet to recover from various injuries. To make matters worse, promising youngster, Yusuf Mainge, also joined the injury list over the weekend Juma said: “There was no sabotage at the den. The players were behind Zapata and gave their all. It’s unfortunate people judge on results rather than performance. We have been playing well but unable to get results since we had a different tactical approach from the time our camp was hit by injuries. We have been playing with makeshift defenders and with such kind of players, you have to be a little bit more tactical to guard your area, meaning you cannot entirely play an offensive game. I am glad Sikhayi has resumed training and we are looking forward to have him and Kamura in the SportPesa Shield Cup third-place playoff match.” The former Leopards midfielder said his first loss at the dugout will not dampen his ambition of leading Leopards to restoring their past glory. He heaped praises on Ulinzi Stars for the win and vowed to address the weakness he saw during the match. “It was my first game in charge and I lost to Ulinzi who were the stronger side. They dominated and used their might to bully us although we also created chances which would have seen us win the match. Credit to them,” said Juma.