The failure by the government to fully operationalize the Sports Fund has left the national football teams, both men and women, staring at the possibility of failing to honour their international assignments due to insufficient funding from the Football Kenya Federation (FKF). Harambee Starlets appear to be the most hit by the dry coffers at the federation as they are yet to report to camp for the forthcoming Africa Women’s Cup of Nations (AWCON) set for November 17 to December 1, thanks to unavailability of funds from the government. Starlets, who qualified for the tournament after winning an appeal against Equatorial Guinea, are in need of Sh43 million to cater for preparations which include honouring two friendly matches, a residential camp, kitting and meeting other logistics. The federation while tabling their budget to the government through the Ministry of Sports were referred to seek aid from the Sports Fund established under the news sports act which remains un-operational despite having Sh12 billion in their accounts. The Sports Fund which mainly sources from taxes on betting companies and lotteries is mandated to remit 35% of their earnings to sports but a bone of contention between the Act and the parliament has seen it fail to take effect. According to the Act, money is set to be disbursed from the Kenya Revenue Authority (KRA) to the fund before trickling to various federations while Parliament want the treasury to solely disburse the money to the federations, leading to a standoff. The Parliament, through the Delegated Legislature Committee, chaired by Gladys Boss Shollei has been voicing their concern to have the Treasury wire the money which is contrary to the Sports Act. It is the impasse between the two which has seen FKF through it’s president Nick Mwendwa reach out to the two to solve the conflict and avail funds for the Starlets, who are set to report for camp on Monday. Mwendwa said Starlets participation in the AWCON was at the mercy of the government and called for a timely intervention to enable them prepare adequately and jet out for the showpiece set for Ghana next month. He said: “On national team assignments, we rely on the government for funding and we are yet to begin preparations due to lack of funds. We understand there are issues between the Sports Act and the Parliament and it is our appeal to them to reach a solution and channel money to us this week so that we can begin our camp on Monday. We need at least sh 43 million for the preparation and the ministry says they are unable to provide the entire amount and hence referred us to the sports fund.It’s yet to take effect which leaves us in limbo.Should the government fail to provide on time then we will be forced to seek support from our fans.” Similarly the senior men’s team Harambee Stars and the U-23 Emerging Stars hopes of honouring their continental and Olympic qualifiers respectively are in jeopardy due to lack of funds. Stars are set to host Sierra Leone at home next month should their ban for government interference be resolved in their favour before taking on Ghana next year in March. The U-23 are also set to begin their quest to qualify to the 2020 Olympics set for Tokyo Japan next month against Mauritius in the first round. According to the federation, the three national teams have a budget estimated at Sh400-500 million for their events.