President Uhuru Kenyatta has asked leaders to stop politics and instead wait for 2022 general elections. Speaking on Saturday during a city clean-up exercise at Uhuru market, Uhuru said politicians should desist from talking about 2022 and instead bring development to Kenyans. "Jameni, tunajua kila miaka tano, tuna uchaguzi... si tugonje jameni miaka tano ifike ndio tuanze siasa ya uchaguzi huo mwingine?" he posed. (We know that every five years we have elections, why don't we wait for 2022 so that we start politics) While a section of Jubilee politicians want Deputy President William Ruto to take over from Uhuru in 2022, others in the Opposition have said they will support ODM leader Raila Odinga. Ruto has been making countless tours across the country to allegedly popularise his bid for the State House race. More on this: Mt Kenya splits into Raila and Ruto camps "Sahi tufanye kazi.Tukikosa kufanya hivyo, wananchi ndio wataumia ama sivyo wenzangu? Wananchi wanataka huduma na kutumikiwa na viongozi waliochagua," Uhuru said. (Let us work for Kenyans. If we don't do this, it is Kenyans who will suffer. Kenyans want to be taken care of by the politicians they elected) Uhuru said his main aim is to make sure that Kenyans lives are elevated and development is brought to the people. "...na mimi nimesema ya kwamba hatuwezi kufanya haya kama tumetengana kisiasa...(I have said that we cannot achieve development if we are divided)" he said. The President further noted that politicians should stop making noise every time they wake up over their respective parties. "You cannot wake up and start quarreling, Kenyans want service. We will not eat our parties but the developments from our leaders," he said. Uhuru said leaders should respect each other and stop public theatrics. "Tuheshimiane kama viongozi. Hakuna maendeleo ya Jubilee, ya ODM, Wiper... maendeleo ni ya wa Kenya. Nashukuru viongozi wa Nairobi tukisema tutabadilisha maisha ya watu wetu," he said. (Lets us respect each other as leaders. There is no development if we say we are from Jubilee, ODM ore even Wiper...Development is for Kenyans. I thank Nairobi leaders for coming together) Last week, Siaya Senator James Orengo said Raila remains the preferred presidential candidate in 2022 He said Raila has fought for many changes and the best reward Kenyans can give him is to make him president. Details: Raila will contest in 2022, says Orengo But some Jubilee MPs said the party is ready to face Raila in 2022. Elgeyo Marakwet Senator Kipchumba Murkomen said they suspected Raila was scheming to square it off with Ruto at the ballot. Read: Jubilee ready for Raila in 2022, says Murkomen Click here for the latest political news