Britain cannot be
bullied, Brexit minister Dominic Raab said on Monday, sharpening
the government's criticism of the European Union for taunting
Prime Minister Theresa May and souring difficult Brexit talks. May's ministers have come out one by one at their party's
annual conference in the city of Birmingham to warn the EU that
they will embrace leaving without a deal if the bloc fails to
show "respect" in the talks to end Britain's membership. Just six months before Britain is due to leave the EU in the
country's biggest shift in foreign and trade policy in more than
40 years, May faces growing criticism over her proposals not
only in her governing party but also in Brussels. Highlighting the depth of the divide, the Conservative Party
conference was mostly viewed with indignation by EU figures on
Monday after Britain's foreign minister Jeremy Hunt compared the
bloc to the Soviet Union. Party unity is on British ministers' minds, however, and
they are encouraging the faithful to direct their anger at the
EU rather than at their prime minister, who some eurosceptic
Conservatives accuse of leading Britain towards a "Brexit in
name only". Other ministers, such as finance minister Philip Hammond,
have taken a softer tone, pointing out that leaving without a
deal could hurt Britain's economy, the world's fifth largest. But Raab said he had called on the EU to match the "ambition
and pragmatism" Britain had put forward with May's Chequers
proposals, named after her country residence where an agreement
with her ministers was hashed out in July. "Unfortunately, that wasn't on display in Salzburg," he
said, describing a summit last month in the Austrian city where
EU leaders rejected parts of the Chequers plan. "Our prime minister has been constructive and respectful. In
return we heard jibes from senior leaders and we saw a starkly
one-sided approach to negotiation." "What is unthinkable is that this government, or any British
government, could be bullied by the threat of some kind of
economic embargo, into signing a one-sided deal against our
country's interests," Raab said. Instead of the much-hoped-for staging post, the Salzburg
summit has become a byword for a sharp deterioration in the
atmosphere of the talks, when British government officials felt
May was ambushed by the other EU leaders over Brexit. "NO CHERRIES" A tweet by European Council President Donald Tusk showing
him offering May a selection of cakes with the comment: "A piece
of cake, perhaps? Sorry, no cherries" "certainly had an impact",
one official said. With no divorce deal and a standoff over the shape of any
future relationship, the possibility of a "no deal Brexit" has
increased, with some businesses preparing for what they see as a
worst case scenario. "The world is watching," said Matthew Fell, chief UK policy
director at the Confederation of British Industry. "Every signal is hugely important in terms of setting the
tone. So the more that people can coalesce around some areas of
agreement such as an industrial strategy, innovation and skills
would be hugely helpful," he told Reuters. But one source close to the government said there was now a
sense that the EU had realised that the tone set in Salzburg was
"perhaps a bit off" and, behind the scenes, conversations
between the two sides were more constructive. Hammond, for one, was keen to pursue a more positive stance. After Brexit, Britain and the EU will still "be neighbours
and we are going to have to carry on living with each other," he
told the conference, again backing May's Chequers plan. "Mr Tusk says it won't work. But that's what people said
about the light bulb in 1878. Our job is to prove him wrong." But his softer line won less support at the conference than
those adopted by Raab, trade minister Liam Fox and Hunt, who
likened some of the EU's behaviour to that of the Soviet Union. The jibe was particularly felt by those eastern members of
the bloc who fell into Moscow's orbit after World War Two and
only regained full independence after the collapse of the Soviet
Union in 1991. They joined the EU more than a decade later. Lithuania's EU commissioner Vytenis Andriukaitis told Hunt
he was born in a Soviet gulag forced labour camp and was jailed
by the Soviet KGB state security agency. "Happy to brief you on the main differences between EU and
Soviet Union," he said. "Anytime. Whatever helps." The European Commission told Hunt to study history and
Poland's former foreign minister, Radoslaw Sikorski, denounced
the comments as "cheap and offensive." But back in Birmingham, it was Raab, winning a standing
ovation for his story about his father's journey from then
Czechoslovakia after the Nazi invasion, who summed up Britain's
new combative stance. "The EU's theological approach allows no room for serious
compromise," he said. "If the EU want a deal, they need to get
serious." Click here for the latest political news