The sugar industry continues to hurtle towards an uncertain future with far-reaching implications for the economies of Western and Nyanza, given the threat of closure of factories and job losses. More than half a million sugarcane farmers and about 100,000 mill workers are staring at a grim future. Challenges facing the industry include mismanagement, obsolete milling technology, high operational costs, poor sugarcane quality and inept implementation of the Comesa safeguards that limit the importation of duty-free sugar. About a decade ago, the acreage under sugarcane was about 220,000 hectares ( 543,631 acres), but now it is 100,000 hectares ( 247,105 acres). The public millers’ cane crushing capacity has fallen from 35,000 tonnes per day to just over 3,000. A petition by the Kenya National Federation of Sugarcane Farmers to the Agriculture ministry revealed that the late maturing cane variety, which takes up to 22 months, is now harvested after 11 months due to an acute shortage. Worse still, research and adoption of early maturing cane have been halted following the scrapping of the Sugar Development Levy. Although public millers blame sugarcane shortage on poaching by private millers, their nucleus estates lie fallow and they have been left to scramble for the little available cane with private millers, who offer better pay. Billions of taxpayer shilling have been pumped into efforts to rescue the millers, but they are still in the doldrums. Though noble, helping public millers clear their balance sheets is a knee-jerk solution. Instead, the government needs to understand the challenges facing the industry in order to save it. The industry needs to be revived and nurtured to be stable and competitive in the long run. There have been proposals for privatisation of public mills to end mismanagement. However, in their current state, it will be very difficult for them to attract serious investors. One fattens a cow before selling it to fetch a good price. Reforms geared towards stabilising the sector to make it attractive for potential investors should be implemented. Research should be undertaken to establish the most efficient technologies and production capacities needed to make the industry competitive. From the findings, the government should undertake to purchase the ideal technologies. To resolve the legal wars between the county governments and the Privatisation Commission, there should be a memorandum of understanding between the two to partner in the sale of the factories The Agriculture ministry deserves praise for coming up with new policies and regulations to protect and profit farmers, without whom there will be no sugar industry. Reorganised terms of engagement between farmers and millers were long overdue and CS Mwangi Kiunjuri took a leap in the right direction. The penalties imposed on millers who fail to harvest their contracted farmers’ sugarcane at the stipulated time and those who harvest immature cane without the farmers’ consent are fair. Proposals that growers and millers be included in the export and import of sugar to guard against shortages and promote stability are welcome. But I would add that millers need to engage farmers more and take seriously their corporate social responsibility in the communities where they operate. Offering advance payment to farmers before cane is harvested is a good way of curbing poaching and ensuring commitment. Awendo MP