Manchester United midfielder Paul Pogba has revealed that he relishes big occasions as he prepares for his side's eagerly-anticipated game away to Chelsea on Saturday. Pogba will have a pivotal part to play as United seek to build upon their dramatic victory over Newcastle by taking three more points. The midfielder was effusive in his praise of Chelsea's Eden Hazard, describing the winger, who has scored seven goals in eight top flight games this season, as 'probably the best player in the Premier League right now'. Pogba told Sky Sports: 'For me (the big games) are the best games to play. You play against the best players, play against a big club, we always have a big rivalry with Chelsea. 'You play football to play those big games with a lot of pressure. That's what you want to play.' Pogba singled out Hazard for praise, with the Belgian having been outstanding so far this campaign. He said: 'We can see that this season they're having a lot of possession, they're winning. 'One character you cannot miss is Eden Hazard. He's on fire. He's probably the best player in the Premier League right now. 'Everything is going well for them, they have good results.' United's aforementioned victory against Newcastle brought a morale-sapping run of four games without a win to an end. There remains much uncertainty over the future of manager Jose Mourinho, whose relationship with Pogba has been called into question. Pogba stressed the importance that the game against Chelsea has for United as they look to start building up momentum. He said: 'For us, the Newcastle game we came back, 3-2 we won at home. We need points, it's going to be a tough one. 'They need points, we need points, the game's going to be very hard. 'We're playing away. It's a Chelsea-Manchester United game you know, so it's a big one.' Pogba revealed how United motivated themselves to come back against Newcastle. He said: 'As well I want to give this point: Old Trafford was a help for us, because the stadium were on fire. I could hear all the fans pushing us. This is crazy but it was the 12th player, helped us a lot. 'You could hear the fans shouting, pushing, even when there's a throw-in they were behind us. It was crazy, it was like really fire.' 'I think it was like last season against Man City, when we had nothing to lose, we were already 2-0 down and we just think: 'Guys, come on we cannot lose, we are at home and need a reaction.' Everyone had the same reaction and we all went for it, we didn't think about nothing, just to go and win.' Pogba also offered his thoughts on the unpredictability of the Premier League and stressed that the whole team has an important part to play. He said: 'You never know what's going to happen in the Premier League, and that's what makes it the most interesting league in the world. 2-0 down, coming back to 3-2, is crazy you know. 'The game is not finished until 90 minutes, you just cannot stop because every situation can change. Premier League is crazy, you have to be focused for 90 minutes, and always in every game you have to give your life. 'Everybody has a part, the goalkeeper, the striker, everyone, just to make the effort for the player next to you. The guys see it, and will make more effort. 'I see this team-mate make this run just for me when I'm not in the position; it just gives you energy to make the run too, to tackle to make the space for the other one too. It's just like team spirit, you have to help each other, and that's how you win.' There is another significant occasion for Pogba to look forward to next week as United take on his former club Juventus in the Champions League, but for now the 25-year-old is fully focused on the game against Chelsea. United go into the game against Chelsea languishing in eighth place in the table, seven points adrift of their opponents, who are second. Click here for the latest political news