It is a huge relief for clubs which ply their trade in the SportPesa Premier League season as the government has announced that the Nyayo Stadium will host matches after the Jamhuri Day celebrations. The government resuscitated renovation works this week at the facility which had stalled for almost a year with an aim of hosting the celebrations. There seems to be light at the end of the tunnel as Sports Principal Secretary Kirimi Kaberia and Sports Kenya chairman Fred Muteti yesterday assured to have the stadium ready for the Jamhuri Day celebrations and later have local league matches hosted there. “We will have Premier League matches played once the celebrations are over. Although the works are set to be completed in March next year, the work remaining after the holiday will not prevent matches from being played. We admit we have taken long to deliver the stadium due to financial challenges but the government has committed itself to meet the deadlines. The stadium will meet all international standards once its completed. I am confident the first phase of the work will be ready by November 20.” The contractor heading the renovation works Chandresh Babariya confirmed that the government had released funds for the remaining bit of the renovation works. There was beehive of activities at the facility which upon completion is set to have a canopy, seats and will meet international standards. Nyayo Stadium alongside Moi, Kasarani and Kinoru were closed last year for face-lift in readiness for Caf Chan Championships earlier set for January this year. However, after the country lost the hosting rights, renovation works at Nyayo Stadium stalled owing to lack of funds. New deadline was set for April this year but the contractor failed to live up to expectations due to delay in payments Two months later, the National Assembly Committee on Sports toured the stadium and vowed to pile pressure on the government to have the renovation works hastened but still little progress was achieved. 