Suspended Pumwani Maternity Hospital medical superintendent Catherine Mutinda has rejected claims that lack of sterile delivery packs caused the deaths of 10 infants. Some nurses had claimed that lack of the delivery kits — caused by closure of the sterilisation unit following a memo by Mutinda — were responsible for the deaths. All were stillbirths, the hospital said; one was brought into the facility dead. Governor Mike Sonko visited the facility on September 17 and found infants’ bodies stuffed in paper bags. A day later, a group of nurses claimed frequent closures of the sterilisation centre had undermined operations and increased the number of infant and maternal deaths. Nurse Alvin Amisi told journalists, “The central sterilisation department was not working. And therefore, there were no delivery packs. They were used until they were exhausted. Nurses started using surgical blades to cut the umbilical cords and using the cord clamps, which is risky, and that is what led to the crisis on that day.” The nurse said there was a memo by the medical superintendent instructing the central sterilisation department to operate only for 10 hours without knowing the workload. “She did that without consulting the relevant team players,” Amisi told journalists. Mutinda, who admitted she issued a memo on machine operating hours, said it was not the cause of the deaths as claimed by the nurses. She had appeared before the county assembly health committee on Wednesday. The team chaired by Roysambu MCA Peter Warutere is probing the infant deaths. “There was no correlation at all between the memo I issued and the deaths,” Mutinda said. She said according to the report she received, the bodies had accumulated since September 12. “We do not understand why they had not been taken to City Mortuary because the mortician in charge had been facilitated to hire a hearse to transport them on Friday (September 14 ),” Mutinda said. She said she issued the memo on the working hours of the sterilisation machine — 10 hours a day — from Monday to Friday and total closure on weekends. Mutinda said the decision followed advice by a biotechnologist. She said she sought advice following frequent breakdown of the eight-year-old machine. “A lot of money was being spent on repairs and trying to get things running. We were told the machine was overworked because it used to run round the clock. So we decided to give it some time to relax,” she said. Mutinda said she contacted Mama Lucy and Kenyatta National Hospitals and learned their sterilisation machines worked for eight hours a day and “rested” on weekends. However, Mama Lucy medical superintendent Musa Mohamed yesterday said they have a number of sterilisers which are used as needed. Hours of operation are difficult to quantify, he said. KNH communications officer Simon Ithae did not pick calls or respond to SMSs. Pumwani acting medical superintendent Beth Maina said all 10 bodies have been accounted for, save for one that the mortician said “was brought from outside”. Suspended administrator Zadock Angahya told the MCAs frequent sterilisation unit breakdowns hurt operations. He said one Sunday he received a distress call from Mutinda at 3am after the machine failed. “I tried to call our driver who lives in Utawala to rush to the facility and take the packs to KNH for sterilisation but he did not return calls. I had to use a taxi,” he said. In addition to Mutinda and Angahya, James Kamau, an obstetrician gynaecologist who was supposed to be on duty, was also suspended. Concerning her absence when Sonko visited, Mutinda said she and her deputy were in Zambia on official duty sanctioned by the county secretary. She had only been medical superintendent for six months. Mutinda said the hospital lacked proper structures and was burdened by huge debt, infrastructure and human resource problems. “The hospital did not have structure at all and we had to start from basics. We formed management board and created committees,” she said. Mutinda said debt was Sh137 million when she took over. By September 30, she said, NHIF had not reimbursed the hospital Sh36 million. Mutinda said there were only seven medical officers against the required 40, five clinical officers against demand for 30 and 54 support staff against the 100 required. “There is no clear costing of services. This means services that go unpaid ... NHIF reimburses a blanket fee of Sh10,000 for each normal delivery,” Mutinda said. She said a normal delivery actually costs Sh20,000 so they lose Sh10,000.