Chief Justice David Maraga will empanel a bench of an uneven number of judges to hear and determine a case in which DCJ Philomena Mwilu is challenging her prosecution over graft charges. In referring the file to the CJ, High Court judge Chacha Mwita said the petition raises substantial questions and due to its public importance, it is only fair it be heard by a bench. Mwita said since the promulgation of the Constitution, it is the first time a sitting DCJ has been arrested, and arraigned in a court of law with accusations that happened at a time she was a Court of Appeal judge. The determination of the case he said will have a material bearing on the independence of the Judiciary.   Having agreed to certify the application for empanelment of a bench, Mwita said it is only reasonable that the conservatory orders staying Mwilu’s criminal case remain in force. This is to preserve the status of the petition pending pronouncement of the law by the bench. Read: DPP wants court to set aside orders staying Mwilu’s case The Office of the Director of Public Prosecutions was opposed to the extension of the orders but Mwita said they will serve a greater purpose, justice and good order. This is because “without them, there will be nothing for the bench to determine since the matter will be reduced to an academic exercise”. “This, however, is not a final pronouncement, the DPP may wish to pursue that application at an advanced stage. For now the orders are extended pending hearing and determination of the petition unless they are set aside by the empaneled bench,” he said. The application for empanelment was filed in court on September 7 by the Office of the DPP. It wants the bench to determine whether it can lawfully fail to commence criminal proceedings against a sitting judge without violating certain provisions of the Constitution. The office also wants the court to determine whether they can proceed to institute criminal proceedings where the Judicial Service Commission has taken no action against a sitting judge of a superior court despite knowledge and information about the criminal conduct of the judge. Also sought is whether in exercise of the powers conferred upon it under the Constitution, criminal proceedings can be initiated against a sitting judge of the superior court and the legal obligations to be considered where criminal proceedings have been commenced against them. Others are whether the criminal prosecution of a sitting superior court judge amounts to encroachment on the independence of the Judiciary and whether a decision to prosecute a judge can be faulted on account of political pronouncements that have no link to the subject matter of the criminal proceedings. More: Mwilu case malicious, criminal plot to remove her from office - lawyers Click here for the latest political
news