There is anxiety at City Hall after the County Public Service Board placed an advertisement calling for applications to fill five executive positions. The board, chaired by Philip Kung’u, placed the advertisement in a local daily yesterday. “The executive committee members shall be accountable to the governor and will be in charge of the county departments as may be assigned,” the advert reads. The move has shaken current executives who do not know the plans of Governor Mike Sonko. The advert implies that some members will be sacked to create vacancies to be filled by the applicants. O ne of the executives yesterday told the Star yesterday they have been working in “an uncertain environment where they are not sure of what tomorrow holds” since they were sworn in November last year. “At least if there is such an advert, it now becomes obvious that some of us will be sacked. What we don’t know is who will go first,” the official said. Kung’u said the officers signed a one year contract with the county government when they were hired. That means their contracts expire in a month’s time. It is Sonko to decide whether to extend their contracts or not. “After the expiry of the contracts, the governor can renew the terms of those serving or bring in new executives. That is his work. What we have done is to advertise the positions,” Kungu said. Section 35 of the County Government Act, gives the governor powers to spell out the contract period for executives and to decide whether to extend or terminate the agreement. Director of communication Elkana Jacob said renewal of the contracts will be determined by the performance of the executives. But an executive told the Star they did not sign any contracts with the county. The official said they were only issued with appointment letters. “The term of a county executive committee member should end when that of the governor ends. Our appointment letters said the contract was renewable every year,” the executive said. The official said they have never been evaluated. “So I don’t know the basis to be used for determining one’s performance.” Political observers say the move to advertise the positions is part of Sonko’s erratic and chaotic style of leadership at City Hall. “Throughout the time that Sonko is going to be the governor, we are going to see many more cycles of the same,” Barrack Muluka said. The ANC secretary general said Sonko’s unpredictable suspension of officials is characteristic of a bad worker who often quarrels with his tools. “There was deputy governor Polycarp Igathe. He left. There have been other senior officers who have gone. Others will come and they will go. We will never get it right because the problem is at the centre. We have got a square peg in a round hole,” Muluka said. Sonko has sacked dozens of employees and closed several offices in what he says is his style of fighting corruption and getting rid of disloyal and incompetent staff. Of the 10 executives the governor hired in November, Finance’s Danvas Makori was fired in May for allegedly working with enemies. Two others are on suspension. They are Hitan Majevdia (Health) and Vesca Kangogo (Public Service). Majevdia was suspended in August over alleged incompetence. Kangogo who took over in an acting capacity was again suspended for insubordination after Sonko discovered 12 bodies of infants at Pumwani Maternity Hospital last month. It is not known whether Majevdia and Kangogo are among those whose contracts will be terminated. Sonko has made many reshuffles in his Cabinet since November. He first reshuffled his Cabinet in February when Makori was moved from Agriculture to Finance department which was headed by Kangogo. Kangogo moved to Devolution and Public Service, a position previously held by Larry Wambua. Wambua took over at the Environment department. Environment’s Emmah Mukuhi took over from Charles Kerich who was moved from ICT to Lands. Makori’s position was eventually taken up by Newton Munene.