Last week’s outline was on how the President set us up for the fall in his Finance Bill speech. He later assented to the controversial Bill, making it law under ominous dark clouds of the Finance Act being unconstitutional. He’s accused of introducing new budget items, thus usurping the role of Parliament. The reduction of shareable revenue due to counties by Sh9 billion should have gone to the Senate. The Hansard recording seems to have been sabotaged but if its record is correct, it will show that the Nays had it against the eight per cent tax on petroleum products. Speaker Justin Muturi may have presided over the greatest fraud ever in Kenya’s parliamentary history. In the speech, the President’s delusions of grandeur crowded out ordinary Kenyans’ needs and missed the point on the petroleum tax’s collateral damage. An unfazed Uhuru Kenyatta sketched visions of grandeur not experienced by many Kenyans: “In addition to supporting devolution, your taxes have been used for an aggressive and successful development agenda...millions of Kenyans travel on new roads...Millions of homes have been connected to electricity. Our mothers have access to safer and cheaper maternal care...free primary education...secondary public schools for free. Our investment in infrastructure is at its highest since Independence...And the standard gauge railway has been nothing short of transformational.” It’s shocking how his monologue on achievements is out of sync with Kenyans’ concerns. Is he talking about the same SGR that can’t pay for itself, despite forced cargo haulage? Whose gobbling of billions is a subject of investigation? Kenyans aren’t against spending on even magnificent projects. Concern is with the here and now, which is, how much of their taxes is going to pay debt that has been squandered in the process of satisfying the President’s delusions? Still he boasts of: “...more than doubled the number of people with access to healthcare under NHIF...vulnerable and elderly Kenyans, more than 700,000, receive monthly stipends. But all this costs money. Your taxes have paid for clear, tangible progress”. Habitually, he is justifying looting of public coffers. What is he marvelling at alone? He could do with a reality check. In “funding devolution to the tune of over Sh1 trillion since 2013”, he reveals the belief prevalent in Jubilee that the county share of revenue is a donation from the national government rather than a constitutional imperative. It’s this mentality that results in halting disbursements to the counties of their rightful share of revenue by the national Treasury. On “all of this we have done without any substantial increase in taxes”, he isn’t being truthful at all, given the huge debt that he wants poor Kenyans to shoulder via punitive taxes. “Now I will address the VAT on petroleum products. The purpose of this tax (is) simple. We have to pay for the new constitutional order...” Why wouldn’t the President just say he needs close to Sh1.5 trillion (half the budget) to cover a Sh563 billion deficit and Sh871 billion to pay maturing debts? His obsession with the myth that the Constitution is expensive is unending yet what one parastatal loses in a year can fund the Cabinet, Parliament and all commissions. Simple tabulation on the cost of current bureaucracy from remuneration of the President to subchief, governors to ward administrators, county offices, Parliament, Judiciary and independent commissions, excluding staff is a paltry Sh22 billion of the annual Sh3 trillion budget. Where it becomes costly is wastage in the name of allowances and theft. “I have also proposed wide-ranging cuts in spending as well as austerity measures across all arms of government. The cuts target less essential spending, such as hospitality, foreign and domestic travel, training and seminars, and similar categories.” The truth is he imposed budget cuts on stipends for the elderly, free maternity, free secondary education, roads, Equalisation Fund and shortchanged counties by Sh9 billion. The irony is that the Health ministry, with devolved functions, is sagging under the weight of billions ostensibly to fund the Managed Equipment Services (MES), yet same payment is deducted at source from county government allocations. kibisu.kabatesi@gmail.com,    