Burial plans for the slain Ex-wife of former Kakamega District Commissioner Paul Yatich today has been stopped indefinitely following a court injunction served on Tuesday. The deceased Loise Yatich was set to be laid to rest at her ex- husband's home in Talai home in Baringo Central Sub-county today(Wednesday). "We had completed all arrangements by yesterday including mounting of tents, preparing foodstuff and inviting friends and relatives only to receive information the funeral has been postponed" Talai location Chief Thomas Chepyegon said. Chepyegon said digging of the grave was the only remaining activity to be done today while the body was expected to be ferried from Moi Teaching and Referral Hospital (MTRH)-Eldoret. Reports say the court order which was not issued to the public was served to MTRH stopping release of the body. "All I leant is there is a valid court injunction issued to stop the burial planned for today "Yatich's son Kipkemei told star via phone call on Wednesday morning. We could not ascertain the exact cause of the injunction, "but we have no objection than to obey the court order” family spokesman Julius Yatich said Yatich said their big worry is the innocent people who may have travelled from far to attend the widely publicized function, only to find it has been postponed. "But we will only have to welcome them home, serve them food and later on we will hold prayers then we dissolve until further communications are made concerning the burial" he said. It is suspected the in-laws may have moved to court seeking to stop the burial pending investigation into the cause of death of their daughter. In contention is also the wealth sharing and where to burial would have alternatively taken place having in mind the couples had not been living together as husband and wife since they separated 10 years ago. But contacted for comment the senior brother to the deceased James Rotich declined saying he is not aware of such said court injunction."If there is then I am yet to be informed" he said in brief. The lifeless body of Loise was found raped and murdered inside her house at Kiplombe near Eldoret on October 16, morning. The victim worked as a curriculum development officer with the Teachers Service Commission in Uasin Gishu County. “Though we have been separated we frequently communicate, I was shocked when my phone calls went unanswered. I reported the matter to the police station,” Yatich said while he accompanied the police to the house. Eldoret West OCPD Zachariah Bittok confirmed the incident saying the suspect she may have been raped before she was murdered. Two suspects Laban Cheruiyot and Simon Lumile were arrested at Kabiyet market in Nandi County while driving in a vehicle belonging to the deceased. Bittok further said police were still pursuing the farm worker who disappeared after the fatal incident.