Kakamega governor Wycliffe Oparanya has differed with western leaders and decided to support the referrendum call by former Prime Minister Raila Odinga. Oparanya’s sentiments come days after some western Kenya leaders converged at Muliro Gardens in Kakamega to criticise the proposed referendum for constitutional amendments. Oparanya said those against constitutional change are selfish and inconsiderate of the common man. He was addressing the press in his office on Wednesday. Oparanya said amendments to the current Constitution are long overdue because it has many loopholes. He said Kenyans should support the move by Odinga to fix the law once and for all. Raila wants the country to adopt a three-tier government that would see the formation of 14 regional blocs. He insists that the work of Building Bridges Initiative would result in constitutional review through a popular initiative. “This will be good for everybody. Personally, I’m in full support of the course towards the constitutional amendments to create a whole inclusive government by creating more positions that would accommodate all Kenyans,” governor Oparanya said. The governor, who is also the ODM deputy party leader, said the country eexperiences chaos every election and this could be curbed through the ammendments. “We must look for ways to have peaceful elections in this country in future and the only way to achieve this is by amending the Constitution to create more positions at the top so that all the communities can feel included,” Oparanya said. “It’s the common man that suffers a great deal whenever we have poll chaos in this country and hence the Constitution must protect them.” The governor said people should not look at the cost of the referendum, saying it was a worthy cause because it would result in stability. “How many billions of money are being stolen from the government and people are not talking about it?” Oparanya said. “It’s only worthwhile if we can use such amounts of money for a referendum for the constitutional amendments. After all, this happens once after a long time.” However, Western leaders who converged in Muliro Gardens last Saturday, including Bungoma senator Moses Wetang’ula, Sports CS Rashid Echesa, MPs Malulu Injendi (Malava), Didmus Baraza (Kimilili), Bishop Titus Khamala and former Kakamega senator Boni Khalwale said they would not support the move. They said the handshake between Raila and President Uhuru Kenyatta has already made the life for Kenyans difficult. “If someone thinks we will go to a referendum to create a position for him, he is mistaken,” Ford Kenya’s Wetang’ula said. “We can only amend the Constitution to serve the common man andbring money to the counties raising the current 15 per cent to 45 per cent.” Kimilili MP Baraza said leaders should be united for the sake of the people they serve. “We should be united by the problems facing our people every day regardless of our party affiliations. We need to have a Constitution that will provide solutions and not create more problems and add burdens,” Baraza said. The leaders said Raila was selfish and his proposals would burden the taxpayer. “A good father does not drink his children’s milk. Raila’s handshake is making life unbearable for Kenyans. Imagine, he supported the eight per cent levy on petroleum products,” Baraza said.