The arrest and prosecution of three top athletics officials over the Sh55 million Rio Olympics scandal came as a surprise to the suspects. They believed the matter had been sorted in December 2016. Former DPP Keriako Tobiko had directed then DCI Muhoro Ndegwa to arrest and prosecute former Sports CS Hassan Wario and PS Richard Ekai over the scandal after investigations were completed. At the time, only the two officials were to be charged. Read: Sh55m Rio scandal: Ex-PS Richard Ekai, two others deny graft charges Then DCI chief Ndegwa Muhoro, reacting to public outcry over the mistreatment of Kenyan athletes during the Rio Summer Olympics Games, ordered investigations into the allegations of misuse of funds. The investigations file was handed over to the chief prosecutor with recommendations that the CS and PS be charged in court for among other offences abuse of office and misuse of public funds. The then head of Economic Crimes Unit Odhiambo Kamulus (now deceased ) recommended that journalists from various media houses, who had received stipends from the Sports ministry to cover the event, be compelled to refund the money or face prosecution. Each of the the journalists had received close to Sh100,000 as pocket money costing the tax payer a cool Sh20 million. Tobiko allowed the police to press charges but when the investigations filed landed at the DCI headquarters, Kiambu road, there were no arrests. A highly-placed source, familiar with the investigations, said a top State House official stopped the arrest and prosecution of Wario and Ekai. The reason was the fear of possible political repercussions coming so close to the August 2017 vote. Yesterday, DCI chief George Kinoti could not be reached for a comment on why it took almost two years to arrest and prosecute the suspects. The source said the decision to revive the case was reached last week after Kinoti was informed of the pending case. The DCI chief is said to have ordered for a review of the file and investigators recommended the prosecution of three more suspects. They are NOCK secretary Francis Kanyili, Kiptanui Arap Soi (Chief de Mission), and Patrick Kimanthi (deputy NOCK Treasurer). Click here for the latest political news  