Mathare United head coach Francis Kimanzi believes their new sponsorship deal with Odi Bets will inspire the team to jostle for the SportPesa Premier League next season. The 2008 champions penned a three-year Sh60m deal with the betting company yesterday and Kimanzi is hopeful the cash injection will be crucial if they are to emerge as title contenders next season. He said the deal will provide a sigh of relief at Slum Boys’ camp following a tough financial year experienced in the local league this year. It will see the players don jerseys bearing the Odi Bets logo at the front while their perennial partner, Ng’ombe, will be at the back. “It’s great to have a new partner on board as we prepare for next season. We had a tough season in 2017/18 where most of the time we were fighting relegation simply because our budget could only allowed us to have a young squad,” said Kimanzi. “I believe with a new sponsor on board, the players will be more motivated and our chances of winning the league or finishing in the top four are high. When finances are available, the players will always give their all and off the pitch issues are minimal.” Kimanzi revealed his intentions of making fewer signings to bolster his squad ahead of the new season. He, however, declined to disclose the number of signings and which departments he intends to beef up. He said: “I have identified areas to strengthen before the season starts and players to bring in but I cannot reveal any further information. I will make a few signings, maybe three or four.” Kimanzi further appealed to the government to renovate the playing surfaces as a way of upgrading the standards of the local league. He observed that a match between Mathare and Kariobangi Sharks at Moi Stadium, Kasarani produced over 900 passes while it is difficult to do the same in the other pitches. “It’s my humble plea to the government to renovate our stadia to allow the standards of our league to grow in terms of quality of play. Playing on a bumpy surface hampers the growth of the league since players find it hard to string passes together and play an entertaining game in addition to being prone to injuries.”