The five day crisis meeting between KNUT and TSC kicked off in a Naivasha hotel with both parties exuding confidence that they would resolve their differences. The officials who met in Sawela lodge said that they were keen to address various grievances raised by teachers before the national examinations kicked off. Among the issues expected to be addressed by the officials include teacher’s transfers, the planned new curriculum, career progression and promotion among others. Other concerns that KNUT which is led by the secretary general William Sossion want addressed are the policy on teacher transfers and delocalization which had affected the morale of teachers and their families. “We shall definitely discuss the issue of the planned teachers appraisal by TSC which our members are totally against,” said a source in the meeting. The press was kept from the meeting with promise that they would be invited at a later date when the two teams had reached a common front. But speaking briefly before entering the venue of the meeting, KNUT national treasurer John Matiang’i said that they had been invited by the TSC for the meeting. Read: Knut, TSC plan five-day retreat to avert September strike He said that they had been taken through the programme of the day adding that they would issue a comprehensive statement after the meeting. “We have arrived for the meeting after an invitation by TSC and we shall discuss various issues concerning teachers during the five day retreat,” he said without expounding. On his part, TSC head of communication Kihumba Kamotho confirmed that the meeting will end on Friday when the two parties will release an official joint statement. “At the moment this is a closed door meeting and the involved parties will invite the press once they are ready to issue a statement,” he said. According to a source attending the workshop, the meeting was called to address the teachers grievances ahead of the coming national exams. The senior official from TSC and who is not authorized to speak to the press said that the government was keen to make sure that the national exams continued without any flaws. “The meeting has been called to iron out teachers grievances so that KCSE and KCPE which are about to start can run smoothly without any hiccups,” said the official. Also Read: Kuppet snubs TSC pay meet, Knut attends Click here for the latest political news 