A brace from former Wazito forward Joe Waithira inspired Nakumatt to a 2-0 win over Ushuru in the relegation/promotion playoff return match at Kasarani Stadium. Nakumatt qualified on a 3-0 aggregate, having carried a 1-0 lead earned from the first leg to the match and will feature in the top flight for the third season running since their promotion in 2017. The Melis Medo coached shoppers had won the first leg courtesy of Tom Adwar’s sumptuous free kick goal and yesterday during the return match, Waithira scored in either halves to condemn the taxmen to their second play-off loss. Ushuru lost 2-1 to Thika United in last year’s playoff and with yesterday’s defeat, Ken Kenyatta’s charges will now play in their fourth successive National Super League season. Waithira gave Nakumatt the lead in the 21st minute after dribbling past two defenders to dink the ball past an advancing Ushuru custodian Kennedy Obwanda. The goal meant Ushuru were to dig for three goals to ensure their return to top flight but Waithira broke their hearts in the 90th minute with a well taken chip. In an earlier match, Kisii-based Shabana returned to the National Super League after beating Mwatate United 7-6 on post-match penalties. The two were forced into the playoff after finishing second in Football Kenya Federation Division One Zone A (Mwatate) and Zone B (Shabana) leagues. Against the odds, the match attracted a sizeable crowd after Taita Taveta governor Granton Samboja ferried fans to the facility. John Musyoka gave Mwatate the lead four minutes after the break but Dennis Nyangwono drew Shabana in the 62nd minute. The two teams failed to get the winning goal in the remaining minutes of the match hence forcing the match into penalty shoot outs. Peter Ogechi, Hamisi Hadi, Joseph Ogega, Andrew Ongwae, Stephen Ogati, Evans Obutu and Wycliffe Nyangechi successfully converted their penalties for Shabana while Mwatate replied through Juma Mwazizi, Manasse Wanyonyi, Paul Otini, Bakari Ojiambo, Oliver Maghanga and Salim Manubi. Victor Omollo send his kick over the bar to the benefit of Shabana, who join Fortune Sacco and Eldoret Youth in the NSL.