The Solai Dam case involving the death of 48 people in May is set for full hearing in Naivasha after the High court dismissed an application seeking to transfer the matter to Nairobi. The court said the DPP failed to raise enough grounds to warrant the High court to issue orders for the case to be heard and determined in Nairobi. In an affidavit, the prosecution alleged the scene of the crime had been interfered with and witnesses threatened. But Justice Richard Mwongo termed the allegations that the case was mishandled by the lower court as "very serious". The judge said he had gone through the whole proceedings and had not detected any impartiality or impropriety by the lower court. "The complaints that the management of the trial by the lower court undermines the process of this trial are very serious but after going through the file there is no evidence to back this," he said. More on this: DPP orders arrest of Patel dam owner Perry Mansukh for manslaughter Also read:  Patel dam owner, eight others released on Sh5m bond each The judge said the Water Resources Management Authority, under the law, was entitled to visit the scene of crime after the dam burst its banks. He said it did not amount to tampering with the scene since the authority was expected to do its own investigations and give a report on the cause of the incident. Mwongo said the DPP did not list or present any witnesses who had been threatened. Dismissing the application, the judge said it failed to indicate if the witnesses were threatened as a group or as individuals. Mwongo directed that the case be mentioned within seven days in the lower court so that the trail date can be set. Dam owner Perry Manusukh is charged with 48 counts of manslaughter and failing to prepare an environmental impact assessment report. The other eight suspects are Vinoj Jaya Kumar, Luka Kipyegen, Johnson Njuguna, Winnie Muthoni, Jacinta Were, Tomkin Odo Odhiambo, Williec Omondi and Lynette Cheruiyot. Click here for the latest political news