A private developer has put up a building on a parcel of land meant for an access road to Central Police Station from Kijabe Street. The four-storey building has blocked police officers from using the gate along Kijabe Street. Central OCPD Robinson Thuku said the gate was erected a couple of years ago for use by the officers, their families and other guests visiting the station, but has never been used as it has been blocked by the building. “This is a police line gate but now we cannot use it because of this building,” he said. Thuku said a 1964 map shows the land was meant for access to and from the station from Kijabe Street. “The gate currently (on Harry Thuku Road) is not meant for families and other visitors. They are supposed to use the one on Kijabe Street,” he said. Thuku said he has already forwarded the map to the multi-agency task force on unsafe buildings headed by National Buildings Inspectorate secretary Moses Nyakiongora. Illegal He wants the building demolished. Nyakiongora told the Star they already had the map from the Survey of Kenya and were scrutinising it to establish how the developer was allocated the land. “In the next two weeks, we will make a decision on its status and whether it should be demolished. But the best thing now is that we have an old map to help us,” he said. Lands executive Charles Kerich and Planning chief officer Jairus Gathenge did not return our calls to comment on the incident. But documents seen by the Star show City Hall in August declared the building ‘illegal’, saying it stands on a road reserve. The documents, signed by Gathenge, note the county refused to issue an occupation certificate for the building in 2005 after it established the structure was put up on a road reserve. The building blocking the access road has made it impossible for fire engines to access the station whenever there is a fire outbreak. The recent incident of fire at the station in February saw engines put out the fire from the road due to their inability to access the area. More than 80 officers lost their property in the inferno. Police cordoned off University Way to allow the firefighters put out the fire, causing a huge traffic snarl-up. Road reserve Grabbing of river banks and road reserves is not new in Nairobi. The Nairobi regeneration team has been demolishing structures constructed on restricted areas in various parts of the city. The famous Taj Mall building was demolished last month for standing on a road reserve. Southend Mall on Langata Road and Ukay Centre have also been pulled down for being on riparian land.