A total of 20 drivers will compete in the 2018 edition of Eldoret Rally this weekend in Uasin Gishu County. Scrutineering of cars will take place tomorrow at Sikh Union Club in Eldoret with the Rally proper zooming off on Saturday. The 1994 WRC Safari Rally winner Ian Duncan will drive a Nissan Pick Up navigated by former threetime open class motocross champion Anthony Nielsen. Onkar Rai, a leading local driver who has previously participated in the Bulkan Bulgaria Classic Rally, will drive a Kabras Sugar Racing Skoda Fabia R5. Rai will be joined by his younger brother Tejvir Rai as well as team mates—former Kenya National Rally Championship winners Baldev Chager and Carl Tundo Tundo, who currently tops the KNRC log, will alongside Chager drive B13 Evolution 10s. The B13 class category has been scrapped effective next season. The B13 rule was introduced in 2018 and allowed for modifications like a larger air box, bigger turbo restrictor to 34mm and a sequential gearbox to all group N and R4 cars. The entry list of 21 cars includes former Group ‘S’ champion Chandrakhant Devji of Kisumu and KNRC Division 1 champion Eric Bengi in a Subaru N12. Chandu is making a comeback after many months in the cold. Chandrakhant will drive his championship winning Subaru Impreza GC8. Chandu as he’s amiably referred to, in his Kisumu hometown will be navigated by Julius Mwachuya of Nairobi. The 2018 Eldoret Rally will revisit the high-altitude terrain used by Western Kenya Motor Club last year. The designated spectator stage will be based at Chemweno Farm, where a 5.5km stretch is being earmarked for hair-raising thrills. The event will be flagged off at Sikh Union Club in Eldoret from 8am onward on Saturday after which rally traffic will tackle a 37km transport road section through to the opening stage at Chemweno. Ceremonial finish will take place at Chemweno Farm, which is also the venue for the Service Park and Rally Headquarters. Three stages, Chemweno Farm and Forest will be repeated to complete a 142km competitive loop and a 36 percent liaison distance totaling 83.10.