Deputy President William Ruto has urged the Luhya to support his presidential bid, saying he will bring them into government and give them influence. Ruto on Saturday told ANC and Ford Kenya members to switch camps and work with him instead of being in the opposition. The DP presided over a funds drive in aid of women’s groups in Matungu. Ruto said the community had lagged in development because it was in the Opposition and it ought to stop supporting Nasa and ODM leader Raila Odinga. Ruto donated Sh2 million and a further Sh1 million he said was from President Uhuru Kenyatta. The DP was assured of support by Sports CS Rashid Echesa and Jubilee MPs Benjamin Washiali (Mumias East), Malulu Injendi (Malava), Bernard Shinali (Ikolomani), Didmus Baraza (Kimilili), Chris Wamalwa (Kiminini) and Dan Wanyama (Webuye West). ANC’s Ayub Savula (Lugari), Titus Khamala (Lurambi) and host Justus Murunga were present. Ruto said the Luhya have benefited from the Jubilee government, despite voting overwhelmingly for the opposition Nasa alliance in 2017. "You gave us only five per cent votes in last year’s election and gave 95 per cent to the NASA coalition, but we have rewarded you by appointing several CSs and other people from here," Ruto said. "In 2022, we should elect people based on their performance instead of mere talk. I am almost there because I am number two in the presidency," he said. CLEAN CASH VS ‘DIRTY’ MONEY The Ford Kenya leadership at the weekend fought off claims that they had decided to work with Ruto. On Saturday, Wamalwa said Kenyans will elect a person with capacity to lead and the DP has demonstrated his ability. But Ford Kenya secretary general Eseli Simiyu on Sunday denied the party had made any resolution to team up with Ruto. Kakamega senator Cleophas Malala asked the DP to keep his “dirty money” out of Western and stop wasting his time in the region. "We would better off in the Opposition with our clean money than in government with money whose origins we don’t know. We will be in government after the 2022 polls but not through Ruto," Malala said. The DP is wasting his time using political rejects like former Kakamega senator Boni Khalwale to gain entry in Western, Malala said. The DP has visited Western many times since last year’s election and made huge donations in an attempt to build support for 2022. On Saturday, Kakamega governor Wycliffe Oparanya referred to Khalwale as “Ruto’s briefcase boy”. "I have worked with Khalwale since he was an MP and senator and he never gave even Sh20,000 in harambees. Where has he gotten so much money that he gives Sh200,000, and even Sh700,000,in harambees?" he asked. Kakamega county ANC chairman Julius Arunga said the DP was “daydreaming about Western support” after Central Kenya, which he banked on, “abandoned him." "We have our sons who have the capacity to bring the community into government," Arunga said. "Even Raila thought that he is our leader but he realised he was wrong when we reminded him that we’re not an appendage of Nyanza," he said. ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi, Ford Kenya’s Moses Wetang’ula and Oparanya have said they want to be president. Click here for the latest political news