A number of manufacturers are yet to comply with the ban on plastics for secondary packaging, commonly known as cellophane film. This is more than a year after the ban on plastic bags came into effect, posing unfair competition in the market. The National Environment Management Authority imposed the ban on use, manufacture and importation of plastic bags in March last year, with full implementation taking effect on August 28. According to Nema, those found violating the law risk up to four years imprisonment or fine of up to Sh4 million or both. The ban saw companies invest heavily in biodegradable bags, with almost all now selling reusable bags to consumers. A spot check in various retail stores across the country shows that some supermarkets opted for reusable branded bags sold for up to Sh45 with non-branded bags retailing for as low as Sh5. Last year, Nema urged retailers and shoppers to look into alternative packaging material like paper, steel or bamboo straws and degradable bags made from starch, corn or potatoes. Tusky’s chief executive Willy Kimani told local press that although retailers incurred huge costs in transitioning from plastic to reusable bags, the initiative is worth the gamble. He revealed that the retailer used to spend 1.5 to 2.5 per cent of its total revenue on disposable packaging materials. Retailers are now sharing packaging costs with consumers. Big manufacturing firms like Kericho Gold and Baraka Chai went a notch higher in compliance, investing hundreds of millions in recyclable quality packaging for its teas and redesigning their packaging enable Cellophane plastic overwrap film from the Packets. They are the only brands to have fully complied to the ban on secondary plastic packaging on their products. According to the firm’s managing director Fahim Ahmed, the company invested in quality and environmental friendly packaging materials long before the plastic bag ban took effect in Kenya so that they would be compliant by the time the ban took effect. ‘’We invested in a range of equipment that gives us the flexibility of producing string and tag Tea Bags, with the option of packing in heat sealed or crimped envelopes, tag less round or square tea bags in foil, in box or in large catering bags, Pint bags for the Food Service sector sand leaf tea in various pack sizes, with or without cellophane, which is banned by NEMA” said Ahmed. NEMA exempted domestic waste paper bags and disposal bags used in the handling of biomedical hazardous waste from the ban on plastic bags. It also gave a through pass to plastic bags used for primary industrial packaging of consumer products such as sugar, bread, milk and salt, as long as the products are packaged at source. However, the authority instructed all manufacturers, importers and users of plastic bags used for industrial packaging to apply for a clearance letter if they wish to continue making or importing the plastic bags. Plastic ban activist James Wakibia however wants Nema to step its war on plastic bag use especially in the industrial sector, saying that most firms are still packaging products in plastic bags. The environmental crusader observed that some sugar, tea, bread and other consumer good firms are using plastic bags to the disadvantage of rivals who have since invested in biosafety packaging. ‘’The war on plastic ban cannot be won if Nema is applying the law selectively. Kenya has seen positive change since August last year but more needs to be done, ‘’ Wakibia said. Green Belt Movement wants the fight against plastic paper use extended in the industrial sector where most firms are still using them for product packaging. This, it says will see use of plastic paper reduce drastically from 24 million paper bags every month last year. About 12 million bags used to end up in solid waste mainstream.