As world leaders and
conservationists descended on London last week for the Illegal Wildlife
Trafficking Conference, the burning question in their minds was: How can trade
in ivory, especially in Asian countries be contained? The fear is that Africa’s
elephants could go the way of dinosaurs. Some 20,000 jumbos are killed each
year — 55 every single day — mostly for the illegal ivory trade. The war on the illicit
trade was dealt a blow on February 4, when ivory researcher Esmond Martin, who
had authored several investigative reports on rhino and ivory smuggling in Kenya
and the trade in China, Vietnam, and Laos, was found murdered in his Karen home
in Nairobi. Speaking at the
conference, First Lady Margaret Kenyatta said Kenya has recorded a significant
decline in poaching due to its enhanced wildlife law enforcement efforts and
the government’s proactive anti-poaching measures. “We have revamped and
improved training and equipped Kenya Wildlife Service ranger forces that
continuously evict poacher elements from the parks,” she said. The statistics make
for gloomy reading, though. The overall number of elephants has declined by
about one third over the last decade. Many elephants now live in small and
isolated populations. And should the current trends persist, elephants will be
wiped out in the next decade. Data from World Wide
Fund for Nature shows that African elephants numbered three to five million in
the last century. However, WWF says, their populations were severely reduced to
its current levels because of hunting. In the 1980s, WWF
estimates that 100,000 elephants were killed each year, and up to 80 per cent
of herds were lost in some regions. In recent years, growing demand for ivory,
particularly from Asia, has led to a surge in poaching. Elephant populations —
especially in southern and eastern Africa, which once showed promising signs of
recovery — could be at risk due to the recent surge in poaching for the illegal
ivory trade. Habitat loss and fragmentation and human-elephant conflict have
also been blamed for the decline by WWF. LEADING TRANSIT ROUTE Kenya has been
identified in various researches as one of the leading transit routes for
smuggling ivory out of Africa, with several incidents of ivory seizures and
recovery of wildlife carcasses in recent times. According to KWS,
elephant population in early 1970s was about 167,000, but in five decades, it
has plummeted to slightly more than 35,000. The Central Africa Republic is the
hardest-hit part of the continent, with regional elephant population declining
by 64 per cent in a decade, according to the report. In July 2016, a report
showed that Vietnam had emerged as one of the world’s biggest markets for the
illegal ivory trade. The report, titled ‘Vietnam’s
illegal ivory trade threatens African elephants’, said no other country in the
world is known to be as active in both illegal imports of new raw tusks and
illegal exports of the final ivory products. Ivory researchers Lucy
Vigne and Esmond Martin found that the overwhelming majority of raw tusks sold
in wholesale in Vietnam are smuggled from Africa, with Mombasa port popping up
as the major transit point in the region. The two researchers
who had set out for the study found out the number of items up for sale had
risen by over six times from 2008 to 2015. In total, Vigne and
Martin found a whopping 242 open outlets, with 16,099 ivory items on display
available for retail sales in Ho Chi Minh city, Buon Ma Thuot town, Hanoi and
surrounding villages. Of these items, 9,893
(61 per cent) were in one of the Northern villages that had not been counted
before, with most objects being pendants and small items like jewelry. This was in contrast
to 2,444 items counted in a report published in 2008 by another ivory
researcher, Dan Stiles, who also found out that most tusks had originated from
Vietnam, Cambodia and Laos. The research was
carried out between November 23 and December 14, 2015. It showed that two
thirds of ivory were leaving through the ports of Mombasa, Dar es Salaam and
Zanzibar, going to China and Vietnam. CHINA JOINS WAR The Chinese government
announced in 2015 that it would phase out the legal ivory trade. This was
followed by the reduction of the number of licensed ivory factories from 37 in
2014 to 34 in 2015, and the number of licensed retail outlets from 145 to 130. Public awareness on
the plight of the elephant has been steadily increasing in China, with bloody
pictures on the internet and WeChat of poached elephants with tusks hacked out. And since the ban was
looming large, ivory dealers who spoke with researchers thought that their
president was being pressurised to close down the country’s legal ivory trade. They hoped there would
not be a sudden ban but a gradual phasing out of ivory. Some hoped the
government would buy tusks from private people as a way of compensation,
including from Hong Kong traders, to help stop the trade. Researchers Vigne and
Martin would later shift their attention to South East Asian country Laos. They
found that the town was becoming one of the fastest growing ivory markets in
the world. There, Chinese were
now buying over 80 per cent of ivory in Laos, but the retail prices were lower
than in China. They later drafted a report called, ‘The ivory trade of Laos:
Now the fastest growing in the world’. The report also noted
most of the raw ivory comes from Africa by ship, in containers destined for Vientiane,
the capital of Laos. “Until recently, 90
per cent of large consignments would be moved directly to China. But nowadays
much of the ivory is being diverted to Vientiane,” the 88-page report says. Vigne and Martin did a
survey in mid-November to December 2016. They collected data on the origin of
ivory and trade routes into Laos. According to them, the
average wholesale price of raw ivory in Laos in 2013 had peaked to about $2,000
per kg (Sh201,896). But by late 2016, the average price had declined to $714
(Sh72,077) per kg. The researchers found
81 retail outlets with ivory on sale, 40 of which were in the capital
Vientiane. The least expensive item was $ 3 (Sh302) and the most expensive was
a pair of polished tusks for $ 25,000 (Sh2,523,707). In Vientiane and Luang
Prabang, Chinese-owned shops had increased from three in 2013 to 35 in 2016. MAJOR BLOW In another report they
released on October 2, this year, Vigne and Martin said the increased ivory in
China from Myanmar could soon deal African elephants a major blow. They compiled the
report in late 2017 and titled it, ‘Myanmar’s Growing Illegal Ivory Trade with
China’. In it, they found that the number of new ivory items for sale had grown
exponentially. “The number of new
ivory items for sale in towns grew by 63 per cent in three years, and now
accounts for over a third of the ivory seen in the country,” ivory trade
specialist Lucy Vigne said. She said Chinese
visitors smuggled worked ivory from Mong La back home, with little concern
about getting caught. “This ivory has often
come up the Mekong River into the lawless eastern periphery of Myanmar, where
it is sold in retail and in bulk. The wholesale price for African raw ivory in
late 2017 in the Golden Triangle region has remained stable at about $770 to
$800 per kg since late 2015,” Vigne said. Recent and previous
studies are now what baffle governments, NGOs and decision-makers who gathered
in London for the Illegal Wildlife Trafficking Conference between October
11-12. Conservationists are
now banking their hopes on the outcomes of the meeting to save elephants.