 “Cowardice
asks, ‘is it safe?’; Expediency asks, ‘is it politic?’; Vanity asks, ‘is it
popular?’; but Conscience asks, ‘is it right?’ There
comes a time when one must take a position that is neither safe, politic, nor
popular, but one must take it, because one’s conscience tells them that it is
right”. These words were spoken by Martin Luther King Jr, the American Baptist
minister and civil rights leader. In
recent weeks, the drum beats of a referendum have been reverberating slowly but
surely across the nation in funerals, sanctuaries of worship and when
commissioning development projects. And justifications for or against, have
been as clear as mud. Those
with 2022 political ambitions are asking, ‘is it politic?’ This is because they
are persuaded that the referendum intends to propose the creation of additional
centers of power, and this complicates their political calculations. They are conflicted
between supporting what is politically expedient at the moment, and what is judicious
for posterity. Those
whose livelihoods and habitats always bear the brunt of elections are asking,
‘is it safe?’ They argue that the nation is just recovering from two very
expensive elections and are wary of a slide back into negative economic growth
and forced migration into safer locations. Those
that are easily impressionable are asking, ‘is it popular?’ This is because
their incentive to support or oppose the referendum depends on the number of
masses on each end of this spectrum. Our ‘common sense’ tells us that if
something is popular, it must be good, true and valid. But this is misguided because
clever marketing, social and political weight, and money can buy popularity. The
question that begs is, who is asking, ‘is it right?’ Who is reasoning with
their conscience? If
you have ever doubted the power of conscience, consider Mikhail Kalashnikov who
at the age of 91, went to church for the first time. Prior to this, he had
refused to accept the moral responsibility for the people killed by his
invention, the AK-47. But as death loomed near, his fear of hell increased. He
penned an emotional letter to the head of the Russian Orthodox Church, saying he
was suffering from spiritual pain over the many deaths his gun had caused. He
said ‘the longer I live, the more this question drills itself into my brain,
and the more I wonder why the Lord allowed man to have the devilish desires of
envy, greed and aggression’. What
is driving the push for the referendum? For those who are calling for the
abolition of devolution and the Senate, is their position motivated by envy of
the incumbents? For those who are calling for expansion of top leadership
positions in the guise of inclusivity, is their position motivated by greed to
occupy those positions? For those who want the status quo to remain, is their
position motivated by hegemony in order to perpetuate their dominance over
others? I
submit that all of the above probably hold true. However, I am more persuaded
that the unfeigned incentive is epistocracy aka ‘the rule of the knowers’.
Epistocracy is a system where the votes of people who have more political
knowledge count more than the votes of those who don’t. Allow me to explain. When
you have a stomach ache, you rarely know the cause. All you know is that you
want the pain to go away. So you consult a specialist to diagnose. Likewise, as
Kenyans, we know there is something wrong in the nation because we feel the
pain in our economic transactions. We are not privy to the cause, but all we
want is a more affordable cost of living. And the epistocratics have diagnosed
that the Constitution is the cause, and prescribed a referendum as the cure. Majority
of the voters do not have enough knowledge to know which economic policies give
us the most favourable outcomes; which political choices give us the most
rational leadership; or which social alternatives mould us into a moral
society. To illustrate this, eight years ago, we got the same prognosis and
changed the Constitution. We did not make an independent assessment nor seek a
second opinion, but were content to accept because ‘Baba amesoma’. But are we any wiser or better today, yet we are
being persuaded to accept the same prescription? In
light of all these, let us briefly interrogate the two major justifications proffered
to change the Supreme law. One
is inclusivity. Our system of governance is a democracy, where eligible
citizens exercise their power by voting. Holding all things constant, is it
improbable that one or two tribes would repeatedly occupy the expanded centers
of power given that it is impossible to predict which tribe would win which
seat? And if we were to predetermine which center of power was the preserve of
which tribe, wouldn’t that in effect alter our system of democratic
governance?  And how, and by who would
this allotment of tribal positions be made? Two,
lean budget. We have been told that our budget is bloated because we are over
represented by well remunerated elected leaders, by devolution and by corruption.
Billow Kerrow, in his article ‘Constitution: Our Punch Bag’, has done a
fantastic job of breaking down the proportions of budget we have been made to
believe are the cause of our economic hardships. And they are a drop in the ocean.
Although a lean government governs best, abolishing these governance structures
to reduce the budget is not the panacea. There
is only one way to shrink our distended budget. And that is for government to
stop spending, and embrace the principle of subsidiarity. This means no public
agency should undertake to do what a private agency can do more efficiently,
and that no higher-level public agency should attempt to do what a lower-level
agency can do more effectively. There
is a flawed belief that an increase in government spending causes an increase
in private consumption and investment, so that each time the government spends
one shilling, the GDP will rise by more than that one shilling. However, the
reality is that when government increases its spending, a couple of things
happen. One, it crowds out and shrinks private sector spending causing a
negative knock on effect on employment and investment, two it raises taxes to
finance its spending which further debilitates private after tax income thus
affecting consumption; and three it breeds corruption through tenderprenuering. It
is, therefore, a fallacy that a referendum to change our Constitution is the elixir
of the economic, social and political challenges bedeviling us. Knowing what
you now know, has the moment come to take the position that is neither safe,
politic nor popular, and ask, ‘is it right?’ If liberty means anything at all, it means the
right to tell people what they do not want to hear.  ~ George
Orwell 