ODM and the Cotu leaders have said constitutional changes are unstoppable. Central Organisation of Trade Unions secretary general Francis Atwoli and ODM leader Raila Odinga have said a review of the Constitution promulgated in 2010 will ensure good governance. Raila spoke on Friday at Langi village in Ndhiwa constituency during the burial of former chairman of South Nyanza County Council Akech Chieng. "Kenya can only improve governance at the counties and national level through a referendum," he said. The former Prime Minister said leading countries in the world reviewed their constitutions to improve governance and boost development. Citing Malaysia, Raila said Kenya had been left behind by countries that gained independence with it in the same year. "The US and India have gone through constitutional metamorphose. Kenya should emulate them. We should support what helps the majority," he said. Raila, who was accompanied by his wife Ida, said institutions should be empowered to provide quality services. Atwoli said the changes need to be done urgently in order to avoid violence in future elections. Related: Referendum is for idlers, says Ruto More on this: Majority opposed to referendum call - poll Also read: Referendum to alter Western politics as bigwigs take stand He said presidential election results are contested every five years because the winner takes it all. Atwoli is optimistic the Constitution will be changed before the 2022 election. "Kenyan politics is based on ethnicity, we must ensure that it has a reflection of all the big political parties," Atwoli said. He told off the people opposed to the calls for a referendum. Siaya senator James Orengo, MPs John Mbadi (Suba South), Otiende Amollo (Rarieda), Homa Bay woman representative Gladys Wanga, and nominated senator Rose Nyamuga attended the burial. Others are Millie Odhiambo (Suba North), Paul Abuor (Rongo) and Martine Owino (Ndhiwa). Orengo said reviewing on the Constitution would make Kenya peaceful. He said those opposed to constitutional amendments do not mean well for the country. "Electoral theft would be fixed through a referendum. It should be supported by all Kenyans," Orengo said. Mbadi urged Kenyans to support President Uhuru and Raila's March 9 handshake to foster unity. Wanga said constitutional changes would build Kenya. "The future of a country with a bad Constitution is doomed," Wanga said. Click here for the latest political news 