NHIF has spent Sh1.36 billion this financial year on payments for breast cancer treatment, up from Sh1.23 billion spent in 2017. In a statement on Wednesday, Judy Otele - Funds Assistant manager, said the amount was paid to beneficiaries through the Cover Membership package. The package covers breast cancer patients through the diagnosis stage, treatment stage, surveillance stage and pet scans. Otele said breast cancer is one of the top two cancers affecting women in Kenya and amongst the top four leading cancers treated by NHIF. "There are 40,000 new cases annually as per the statistics given by the National Cancer institute of Kenya and 80 per cent of those diagnosed with cancer are covered by the Fund," she said. According to Globocan 2008, which is part of the WHO's Agency for Research on Cancer, about 6,000 cases of breast cancer will be diagnosed in Kenya this year. October is the month of breast cancer awareness. Otele said NHIF covers six sessions for the first line treatment for up to Sh25,000 per session, four sessions for the second and third line treatment for up to Sh150,000 per session and 20 sessions of radiotherapy at Sh3,600 per session. She said they are looking into developing a wellness program to promote screening of not only cancer but also all other chronic illnesses. Breast cancer symptoms include change in skin texture on the breast, retraction of nipple, discharge from nipple, a typical fullness, and lumps. "Biopsy is covered by NHIF under the surgical package, and a minor surgery is covered up to Sh40,000. Radiology is also done during the diagnosis stage and this could include breast MRI, ultra sound, or CT-scan, which is also covered fully by NHIF," Otele said. Read: A voice from Kenya: 'I never knew men could get breast cancer' In 2016, millions of contributors who could not access treatment for chronic diseases under the health insurer’s enhanced medical scheme got a relief after the fund announced new packages and benefits. This allowed members with chronic illnesses such as diabetes, hypertension, kidney failure allowed to get treatment under the cover. Read: NHIF rewards members with new rates, other benefits However in 2017, unfriendly health workers and over-prescription of painkillers were named as major issues that were making majority of Kenyans shy away from NHIF’s Supa Cover initiative. Director of quality assurance Ambrose Lugho said since the inception of the initiative, most clients complained of unpleasant historical experiences, such as a poor customer experience, contributing to dropouts. Lugho said some customers lack the money to make immediate payments upon the registration or the necessary documents required to complete the registration. "We have also observed a high preference for on-ground registration as opposed to physical office locations," he said. Lugho said though the product awareness was still low, many customers were willing to sign up for Supa Cover once they fully understand the benefits package. He said many customers do not know the difference between NHIF and other service providers. The Supa Cover Micro Insurance Medical Health Cover targets the low-income population at a cost of Sh6,000 per year. Read: Unfriendly staff to blame for NHIF Supa Cover low returns Click here for the latest political news