A wind of change has been sweeping across the Horn of Africa, breathing peace and goodwill between longtime adversaries Somalia and Ethiopia since Prime Minister Ahmed Abiy took over office in April. Abiy has changed Addis Ababa’s foreign policy towards its immediate former longtime adversary and neighbour. In a record span of 6 months, Abiy has ended a 20-year long bloody feud with Eritrea over a border and signed a peace deal that has restored full diplomatic and trade ties. A few months ago, such a thought without even intent would have taken you straight to the gallows for sedition or other terrorism laws used by the ruling elite to jail and kill political opponents. Much to the applause of Somalis, on 21 October 2018 in Asmara, Eritrea signed a peace accord with the Ogaden National Liberation Front (ONLF), an Ethiopian-Somali separatist group to end 30 years of hostilities in the eastern Ogaden region rich in oil and gas. Not long ago, a mention of ONLF in Ethiopia would attracted serious repercussions. Somalia and Ethiopia fought three wars over the Ogaden region in 1964 Ethiopian-Somali border war; in 1977-1978 Ogaden war and, in 1982, the August border clash. Prior to these national wars, Somalis and Ethiopians have been fighting each other since 1897 when the colonial administration handed over pasture-rich Ogaden region to King Menelik II of Ethiopia in exchange for his support against raids by Somali clans. Somalia’s main bone of contention with Ethiopia has always been the reunification of the Ogaden region to the greater Somalia. This is what caused all the hostilities and war between the two nations. It was the same in Kenya with the Shifta war in the Northern Frontier Districts. Ethiopia had systematically brutalised Somalis in Ogaden compared to Kenya’s treatment of Somalis in the NFD with the exception of the 10 February 1984 Wagalla massacre of ethnic Somalis in Wajir.  SUCCESSFUL COUPS If implemented, the latest peace deal between Ethiopia and the ONLF is likely to end the long bad blood between the two countries. The youthful premier has been winning hearts and minds in the Horn of Africa with his style of leadership that is reversing historical injustices and fostering mutually beneficial relationships with neighbours who were sworn enemies. ONLF and Ethiopia signed the peace accord on October 21, 201 in Asmara, exactly 49 years after General Mohamed Siad Bare took power in a bloodless coup d’état and went on to rule Somalia for 21 years. ONLF and three other Ethiopian rebel groups were supported by Siad Bare to oust, first Emperor Haile Selassie and later Mengistu Haile Mariam. Mengistu later murdered Selassie and proceeded to eliminate many dissents, earning himself the ignominious title of the Butcher of Addis. On the other end, the Ethiopian leadership also supported Somali dissidents opposed to Siad Bare’s autocratic rule to also overthrow him. Interestingly, the two coups succeeded in 1991 with Mogadishu, Addis Ababa and Asmara all falling into the hands of rebel groups supported by each other’s foe. Talk of the hunter turning hunted. The ONLF/Ethiopia peace deal affirmed the political rights enshrined in the Ethiopian Constitution and recognized the need to address the root causes of the conflict. Parties agreed to end hostilities towards each other and ONF undertook to pursue its political objectives through peaceful means within the spirit of the constitution. It is what ONLF has been fighting for —pursue their political objectives through peaceful means without repression that has resulted in brutal suppression of resistance.  CHANGE OF POLICY Ethiopia’s peace deal with ONLF is likely to end Somalia's melancholic desire to see the Ogaden region secede from Ethiopia because the region will enjoy peace and prosperity contrary to the aspirations of greater Somalia. The dream of uniting all Somali regions separated by colonists died with the collapse of Somalia in 1991. Premier Abiy is now busy reconciling Eritrea and Djibouti – the former French Somali enclave in the north fighting with Asmara over a border dispute. He is also credited for bringing together Somalia to patch its differences with ONLF after Somalia arrested and renditioned ONLF Commander Abdikarim Sheikh Muse aka Qalbidhagah or Stone Heart to Ethiopia on August 23, 2017. Prime Minister Abiy later pardoned Qalbidhagah to the great relief of Somalis across the globe. As a mark of the changed policy towards Somalia, Abiy’s recently poured cold water on calls by presidents of five regional federal states — Jubaland, Puntland, SouthWest, HirShabele and Galmudug —to side with them in their tussle for power with Somalia President Mohamed Abdullahi Farmaajo. Another case of Addis Ababa’s change of policy in Somalia is its reaction and Abiy’s swift state visit to Mogadishu on June 16, 2018, to meet with President Farmaajo after a Dubai-based company announced a deal with the self-declared Somaliland enclave to develop the port of Berbera. Landlocked Ethiopia was given 19% stake in the deal much to the fury of Somalis. Abiy’s visit to Mogadishu was calculated to get Somalia’s endorsement of the Berbera deal and also a show of respect for Somalia’s sovereignty. This time round, Premier Abi’ys ingenuity killed two birds with one stone. He got Ethiopia’s port deal and also convinced Somalis that they respect their sovereignty and will no longer support political dissidents opposed to the government of the day.   *** DID YOU KNOW?            