A witness has told the court that Nairobi lawyer Guy Spencer forged deceased businessman Roger Bryan Robson’s will in the sale of a Sh500 million piece of land in Karen. Robson died in 2012 and left a will with Spencer, who was his lawyer. The Directorate of Criminal Investigations (DCI) claimed that Spencer planned to transfer the property to himself. The detectives further claimed that the lawyer had started lining up a buyer to purchase the property for Sh70 million at the time investigations started. Advocate Ann Mwalulu, a partner of Archer & Wilcock advocates, confirmed the court on Monday that the lawyer was the author of the disputed will. While giving evidence, the witness said Spencer wrote the will and wanted to execute it. "It was absurd to learn that the lawyer wanted to execute a will that he prepared," the witness said. The controversial lawyer late last year lost a quest to quash his prosecution over the contentious transaction. High Court judge George Odunga, in a ruling then, dismissed the Spencer suit seeking to block his arrest and prosecution. Odunga held that the lawyer ought to prove his innocence before a criminal court. Read: Lawyer Guy Spencer charged with forging will for Sh500m Karen land Mwalulu further confirmed that by the time the will was drawn she was not working at the law firm. "I vividly recalled that in early 2005, Spencer sent a driver to pick the disputed will from our law firm," Mwalulu said. When she was further grilled on whether there was inventory or any document showing that the driver took the crucial document, the lawyer said the driver carted away with the whole file. When asked whether they had been given instructions by the late Roger Brian to issue the will, she said no instructions were ever given. Asked whether they knew how the estate was to be distributed, Mwalulu said she was not in a position to answer. Friends and family members also questioned the forged will since it declared that the late be buried against his will of being cremated. Another witness, M.A Khan Advocates, told the court that he issued the document to the businessman contrary to Spencer’s allegations that the same was held by the bank. Also read: Court declines to withdraw Sh500 Million land forgery case Click here for the latest political news 