Despite the strong assurance by none
other than President Uhuru Kenyatta and his Deputy William Ruto that National Transport
and Safety Authority will ensure reduction of transport fares to match the
price of fuel, nothing has been done and Kenyans are still paying exorbitant
fares which will definitely shoot up even further in the festive season. It seems
either the public was treated to empty talk or someone is sabotaging the
President’s good intentions. There is an outcry from Kenyans that Kenyatta has abandoned
them at the mercy of the greed and rogue matatu operators.  **  Did a prominent governor from Nyanza
receive a fake "UN award"? This is the question that the public are
asking after it emerged that the institution that handed out the 'prestigious' award to the governor award is amorphous and is not in any way related to the United
Nations. Amazingly the said governor's press team took to social media
to celebrate the award only to realise later that it is fake and massively
misspelled, something that has made many residents to question if it really had
any connection with the UN. Civil society and locals are now demanding for a
massive shakeup to the team that is embarrassing the county boss and the county
at large. ** Are there more than meets the eye in the mushrooming of bodaboda shades sponsored by county governments? Well, Corridors has
observed thousands of the shades erected along a number of roads across all the
47 counties, some in places even where there are no bodaboda operators begging
the question why the zeal in coming up with these structures. The structures
according to our mole, have a good budget and are cash cows for the MCAs under
whose dockets they are being implemented. ** So what happened to the much hyped
war against illicit brews? Along the edges of Nairobi River are young men some
stoking the fire, others splitting firewood while others fetch water to cool
their distillery. However, they use raw sewage flowing in the River to cool
their drums that have entirely been covered by black soot. And even as the
fire burns the drums, young men watch over them guardedly. At the banks of the river, clear division of labour is there as roles are divided between young
men. Some stoke the fire, others split, while others fetch water to cool their
drums. While all this is happening, Kenyans wonder if security agencies are
aware and if the much hyped war on illicit brew was just hot air. Perhaps the
Nairobi regeneration team might think about going to this place as a matter of
urgency.   