An anti-terrorism forum begins today in Mandera town. Participants will include clerics, security officers, elders, community leaders and politicians. They are to focus on measures to deradicalise the youth and prevent and counter violent extremism. It ends tomorrow. Mandera borders Somalia and has been chosen for the meeting because it has borne the brunt of attacks. Hundreds of people, including security officers, health workers, quarry workers, teachers and civilians, have been killed by al Shabaab militants. Barely two weeks ago, suspected Shabaab militants killed two teachers at Arabia Boys Secondary in Mandera East. Interior CS Fred Matiang’I is to give the keynote address. Others expected to attend are Police IG Joseph Boinnet, UN resident coordinator Siddarth Chatterjee, National Counterterrorism Centre boss Martin Kimani and governors of Mandera, Garissa, Wajir, Marsabit and Isiolo. Violent extremism and radicalisation are the biggest threat to the region’s security and economic growth. The government says some Kenyan youths are working with al Shabaab to stage attacks. Recently, while touring the border town of Holugho, regional coordinator Mohamed Birik issued a three-month ultimatum to the youth working with al Shabaab to surrender before they are captured and punished. On Saturday during Mashujaa Day celebrations at Mandera Stadium, county commissioner Kutsa Olaka urged leaders to confront terrorism head-on and help the government to rid the region of attacks. He accused religious leaders and politicians of sympathising with the Somalia-based Shabaab militants, thus undermining security efforts against the group. Olaka urged the leaders to stop living in self-denial, warning that their talk without action plays to the advantage of the terrorists. “Terrorists are known for creating fear to achieve their ill-intended mission. It’s only you, the leaders, who can build confidence amongst our people,” he said. Radicalisation is growing day by day and residents must reject its proponents, he said. Governor Ali Roba said residents have suffered, as terror hurts socioeconomic development by sabotaging key sectors of their economy. “By killing teachers, health and quarry workers, the militants are slowly putting obstacles in the way of other people who would like to work in the region. Unless our security agents are up to the task of protecting residents, we’ll be alienated from the rest of the country,” he said. “We’re not only suffering as a result of targeted terror attacks but we also seem to have fallen into the or the trap set by terror cells.” Roba said that by targeting non-natives, the terror group is keen to pit Kenyans against one another. The county chief urged security chiefs to lift the ban imposed on quarries, saying many people depend on them to support their families. “This is where our people eke out a living. They also provide the much-needed revenue for our county,” he said.