A group of depositors in the defunct Imperial Bank Limited has threatened to sue Central Bank at the East African Court of Justice citing the regulator’s failure to heed to their plight. The Imperial Bank Depositors lobby group, which held prayers on Saturday to mark three years since the bank was put under receivership, accused CBK and KDIC of using the local court process to delay justice for victims. “We have not only our lost money, but the lack of communication from the CBK has been met with frustration which has turned to anger. We are looking at an option of joining others at EACJ in Tanzania,” depositors said. Imperial Bank depositor Wambui Kibicho of Pontrilas Investments Ltd moved to the regional court in late August last year to compel CBK to compensate depositors for funds lost in the bank’s Sh38 billion fraud. The petitioner argued CBK officials’ actions and omissions in the Imperial Bank fraud - which was orchestrated over 15 years - were in breach of the EAC founding treaty obligations on good governance of a banking institution to protect individual depositors’ rights in a regulated bank. Imperial Bank was placed under receivership in October 2015 following the discovery of a fraud that went on for 13 uninterrupted years. Early this month, CBK announced receipt of a binding offer dated September 27, 2018, from KCB Bank Kenya Limited with respect to Imperial Bank Limited as part of the Expression of Interest process that was announced in October last year. It did not reveal details of the offer, saying it will do so in a meeting with depositors and as soon as the binding offer has been fully assessed. The announcement came a day after the High Court had allowed Kenya Tea Development Authority’s request to extend the bank’s receivership to January 15 next year to obtain details of the planned takeover. KTDA, which lost Sh2.9 billion of farmers’ deposits, accused CBK of failing to disclose due diligence and steps taken to protect interests of depositors and not giving updates on the financial position of the bank. This was the fourth receivership extension after the High Court granted CBK and KDIC a 70-day extension of receivership on July 31, purportedly to negotiate a better deal for depositors from KCB, promising to once again conclude the process. The lobby group accused CBK of keeping them in the dark, saying they had no clue on what KCB had offered that the regulator wanted to be improved on. The regulator is yet to make details of the binding offer received from KCB to depositors, almost two weeks after it made the announcement.