On October
14,
Somalia celebrated the first anniversary to mark the worst terror attack in
Mogadishu, which killed over 700 people and left more than 1,000 injured. An unknown number of people
are still unaccounted for because their bodies were never recovered, assumed
they were burnt beyond recognition and nothing remained at all. As we mourn the victims,
it is important to take stock and ask ourselves what lessons were learnt from
that barbaric act, which could only have been committed by the Somali people’s
worst enemy, the al Shabaab. Even if al Shabaab has
not taken responsibility but deep down, we know its them who did it because it
carried all the hallmarks of their unjustified animosity, anger and hate for
the Somali people, who are unfortunately too terrified to even point out this
enemy let alone revenge back. The murderers militant
has a habit of not owning up to attacks in Somalia. Lest we forget, al Shabaab
did not also own up to the second worst attack against us in 2009, when their
suicide bomber, disguised as a woman, blew himself up at a medical graduation
ceremony in Mogadishu’s Shamow Hotel killing dozens, including the first
medical graduates to have studied in Somalia, ministers, journalists,
businessmen, women and children. Coincidentally, Shamow
Hotel is located less than 300 meters away from Soobe junction, now renamed
October 14 junction and a monument erected. This is the sole reason
why these losers are still running around killing innocent people at will,
whenever they want and wherever they wish, just like they have done at African
Union peacekeepers bases across Somalia, UN compounds, government offices,
Presidential palace, Parliament building, courts, hotels, Liido beach,
junctions, roads, markets and even schools. They have spared no area.  HOW DID IT HAPPEN? It is human nature to
recall what happened on October 14 when we mourn. Around lunch time as
people were going about their, a 10-tonne truck loaded with explosives was also
busy trying to evade the lunch-time traffic to hit an unknown target within the
capital. The truck was stopped by
police manning the busy Baidoa road in front of Somalia’s Ministry of Foreign
Affairs simply because the truck only had the driver. It is not normal to see a
truck with only a driver since there is always one or two loaders in the front
cabin.  The policeman became suspicious
and unknowingly questioned the would-be suicide bomber. That is the norm at
least. When the would-be-killer
realised he had been suspected, he sped off straight towards the busy Soobe
junction, smashing vehicles, tuk tuks and missing passers by a whisker before
he blew himself a few meters from the junction. Because of the weight of
the truck, the load of explosives planted beneath it, the number of gas canisters
and all crude weapons you can think of, the explosion left a huge hole the size
of a small swimming pool in the middle of the tarmac road and left a trail of
burning shops, vehicles and people within a radius of over 50 meters. The
explosion was heard and felt across Mogadishu. People far from the scene
assumed an earthquake had hit the city.  AL SHABAAB TACTIC Since then the same sick
gang has executed close to 10 or more suicide attacks, including the latest
twin blasts in Baidoa on Sunday, the day we were marking October
14. The majority of these
have been in Mogadishu, including a very complex attack on July
7 at
the Ministry of Interior in central Mogadishu, exactly opposite Parliament building
and not far from the Presidential State House, Villa Somalia. The reality is we cannot
count the number of Somalis, big or small, male or female, child or adult
killed by a Shabaab’s assassin’s bullet, suicide bombers, vehicle borne
improvised devices (VBIED), roadside bombs and mines, grenade attacks and their
many other styles of murder. However, what is
important for us who are patriotic to Somalia is to prevent similar massacres
in future in our own capacity. The sad reality is that
we, as a people or government, have done very little to stop the circle of
death and destruction committed by these militants because the same attacks by
the same people happen every other time. It is common sense, because had we
done something, then we would not be talking about it now, tomorrow or even next year. God forbid, al Shabaab
is now, as am writing or you reading this piece, actually plotting to kill as
we think of how to advance our lives, businesses and live a normal life. That
is the difference between them and us. We are normal human beings;
they are not. What they are doing goes against life, faith and every other
sensible reasoning. But in reality, all they want is for us to fear so that we
don’t think or act to stop their madness. Just like all gangs, they thrive on
fear, whic is their main tactic.  LESSON LEARNT President Mohamed
Farmaajo and his government must re-double their efforts. I know they are
trying but they need to do more, especially on intelligence gathering, which
often saves. On the other hand, Somali forces should be always be on al
Shabaab’s case. They should be thinking on how they can stop this enemy and better
protect and preserve lives in Somalia. We must learn from the past attacks to
prevent future attacks. And what can you and I,
as the public, do? Well, we need to stay vigilant, as that AK 47 rifle
clutching elderly mother in central Somalia did when she stopped a suspicious
truck in the central Somalia town days after the October
14
junction attack. We need to emulate her passion,
zeal, bravery and more importantly, responsibility. We must be responsible and
report or even act as the brave woman did, when we see any suspicious person. The
more we remain careless and leave everything to the government that is when al Shabaab
strikes! We must also forget our
clan differences and work as one because when a bomb goes off, it does not
choose which clan you or I belong to! Does it?  DID YOU KNOW? In Somalia, the majority
of the victims of al Shabaab terror attacks are innocent civilians and not
government officials or soldiers, as the group claims to justify their
killings. Just like the mafia, al Shabaab
extorts money from businesses in Somalia to fund their killings of the same
Somalis they extort! Almost every business premise pays protection money,
failure to which they are threatened with murder. Most of the hotel attacks in Somalia
are associated with non-payment of the extortion money. The figure varies with
size of your business. Corruption within
government officials or security forces is blamed for most al Shabaab attacks
on highly guarded government premises. There is always an officer or official
who has been compromised to make sure the suicide car passes through tightly
controlled checkpoints manned 24 hours by heavily armed soldiers. 