The court yesterday barred former Public Service PS Lillian Omollo from accessing any money from her bank accounts for three months. In an order issued by the High Court, Omollo has been barred from transacting, withdrawing and transferring funds held in six accounts in Equity Bank and four others inDiamond Trust Bank. Omollo’s accounts were frozen on suspicion they were used as conduits for millions of shillings looted from the National Youth Service. Read:NYS boss Richard Ndubai, three senior officials arrested over Sh9bn scandal Justice Hedwig Ong’udi froze the accounts for 90 days under the money laundering law following an application by the Asset Recovery Agency. “That the preservation orders shall remain in force for 90 days as provided for under Section 84 of Proceeds of Crime and Anti-Money Laundering Act,” the court order reads. The court also directed the Asset Recovery Agency to comply with Section 83( 1 ) ( 5 ) Proceeds Crime and Anti-Money Laundering Act. The court documents indicate four accounts are under the name of LIDI Estates Limited, three accounts are under Omollo’s name and the other accounts are in the names of three of her family members. The Assets Recovery Agency had filed the application for orders to freeze the bank accounts on grounds the money may be withdrawn by the former PS. It says the money is linked to the NYS scam. It is alleged that some of the accounts registered in her names had received funds from the NYS loot. Omollo has been charged with the several counts of corruption relating to the loss of billions at the NYS. She and her co-accused were in court on Monday for the hearing of their case, but the case was adjourned after the prosecution introduced new evidence and charges against some of the accused. Read: NYS suspects denied bail, to remain in remand until end of trial The corruption trial will be heard today before chief magistrate Douglas Ogoti. The DPP is expected to make his opening remarks before witnesses take the stand. Detectives have revealed that most of the cash deposits were made in a span of three years, especially in 2016, 2017 and 2018. For instance, an account held by Sahara Consultants received Sh7.9 million in May and August 2017. During the same month of August last year, her other firm, Lidi Estates Ltd received Sh2.9 million in a US dollar account at Equity Bank. In their defence, Omolo and her husband said they are doing joint farming at Oneko’s Siaya rural home and the deposits were part of the proceeds. But the detectives say the two were unable to produce any proof of the existence of farm business like trade permits, tax returns or anything to support the business. “Despite the said farm produce being sold in Siaya, the 1st respondent [Omollo] surprisingly only deposits the sales from the farm produce in Nairobi instead of the nearest banks,” the detectives argued. Click here for the latest political news