National Olympic Committee of Kenya (NOCK) President Paul Tergat has been named as a member of the coordination committee for the Summer Youth Olympics in Dakar, Senegal in 2022. In a letter written by International Olympic Committee (IOC) President Thomas Bach, said the commission will play an important role in regard to the organisation of the 2022 Youth Olympic Games and the implementation of the Olympic agenda in 2020. The coordination committee will be chaired by former Olympic swimming champion Kirsty Coventry of Zimbabwe. The other members are former Olympic 400m champion Nawal El Moutawakel of Morocco, Gunilla Lindberg (Sweden), Leandro Larrosa (Argentina) and Andrew Ryan of Great Britain. Tergat thanked the IOC for granting him the opportunity to serve in the committee and giving Africa the first the first chance to host an Olympic event. “This is ours and we will work round the clock to ensure it succeeds just as we did with World Cup in South Africa in 2010,” said Tergat, who is also an executive member of the IOC. Senegal were officially confirmed as the hosts for the 2022 Youth Olympic Games by the IOC on Monday. The session approved Senegal staging the next edition of the Youth Olympic Games by acclamation. The country was the only candidate after the IOC executive board acted on a recommendation from their 2022 Evaluation Commission. The commission, chaired by IOC vice-president UÄŸur Erdener, chose Senegal ahead of Botswana, Nigeria and Tunisia, who were also interested in becoming the first African host of any Olympic event. The 2022 Youth Olympics will take place in capital city Dakar, the new city of Diamniadio and the coastal resort of Saly, between May and June following the rubber-stamping by the IOC Session. “At this very ceremonial moment for Africa and in particular for Senegal, I wish to express on behalf of all Africans our gratitude and our recognition for choosing us,” Senegalese President Macky Sall told the session. Sall announced a 50,000-seater stadium would be constructed to stage the event, while a new rail link will be built to help ease traffic concerns. May or June has been chosen as the dates.