 When do you become wealthy? Is it when you finally have millions of dollars in your bank account? When can you confidently say: “I am rich.” People have different views on the matter; it’s grounds for debate. That is why I’ll stick to the laws of success. Yes. Laws. Success is based on laws. It’s not an emotional issue. Laws make success happen. There are specific laws that govern success and these laws produce specific results without fail. One such law is: you become wealthy before you become rich. Wealth first happens in your mind before it occurs in your life. A poor mind cannot produce riches. You must first experience wealth in your mind before you see riches in your bank account. If it doesn’t happen in your mind, it won’t happen in your account. Wealth is mental riches. Cash is a physical manifestation of mental riches. So, when do you become wealthy? You become wealthy when you catch and begin to think wealth thoughts, whether you have money or not – even with an empty bank account. You become wealthy the day you start thinking in terms of wealth. The physical manifestation is only a matter of time. The error some people make is to think that they must first see a big bank balance to believe they’re rich. So, they spend years meddling with poverty thoughts, believing that one day riches will suddenly happen to them. It doesn’t work that way. First, your mind must become wealthy and then, your life changes to march the thought patterns in your mind. You are what you think. One of the greatest strategies for success is to act like you’re already what you want to be. If you want to be rich: find wealth thoughts, start thinking in wealth terms and talking like a wealthy person. Dress like the wealthy, feel wealthy and act wealthy – and you will begin to attract the people, resources and opportunities to make you what you want to be. First, you think and act wealthy before you become rich. If it happens inside you, it will happen around you. This principle sounds crazy. Some people may think: I’m broke, what’s the point in thinking and acting wealthy? Truth is: this is how you eventually become wealthy. And I don’t mean fake it till you make it; no. This is about building up wealth in the inside to guarantee durable riches on the outside. Wealth is thought first, before it becomes an experience.   Email:
smpamugo@gmail.com  