Sabaki squatters in Magarini on Sunday invaded 950 acres belonging to the Agricultural Development Corporation and subdivided it among themselves. They alleged that the land had been allocated to influential government officials and tycoons and demanded that their rights to ownership be respected. Malindi Water and Sewerage Company said it owns 25 acres of the parcel. Sabaki Residents’ Association secretary Kaviha Kikopi said the ADC land was grabbed and allocated to influential people from Rift Valley. He said the entire parcel originally belonged to residents but was hived off by the government for a collapsed farming project by the ADC. In 2002, they petitioned President Mwai Kibaki and, through his intervention, it was given back to them, Kikopi said. But some residents dismissed the remarks and accused their MCA of getting kickbacks from the tycoons and pretending to be championing residents’ interests. A perimeter wall was being built around the parcel. The squatters said a private developer was behind it. They carried pangas, jembes and twigs, and marched from Kibokoni trading centre to the farm, lighting bonfires along the way. Sabaki MCA Edward Delle led the protests. They disrupted transport on the route. They first conducted traditional rituals at an old grave they said belonged to one of their ancestors. They had to appease their ancestors before taking over the land, they said.  They poured local palm wine (mnazi) on the grave. Some immediately began clearing bushes once they got their shares. They said they would build houses to bar the tycoons and government officials from repossessing the land. Delle said they reached the decision after their efforts to seek justice from the authorities, including the National Land Commission and the Lands ministry, were unsuccessful. "We’ve got back our land. I urge you to observe the division of our land. We went to the EACC, [suspended NLC chairperson Muhammad] Swazuri, the Lands Cabinet secretary and DPP Noordin Haji. We lodged complaints, but, because we are Coast people, we were ignored,” he told reporters. Kikopi said it was agreed that no private development would go on in the farm, but, surprisingly, some people began developing it. "We have over 27,000 people in Sabaki. It’s not enough for us all, but it will be a relief even if everyone gets an acre,” he said. As they divided the land, another group of residents accused the MCA of misleading the squatters after taking cash from the tycoons. Paul Mzungu said Delle was pushing for his own interests and not the squatters’. Malindi Water and Sewerage Company MD Gerald Mwambire said they acquired 25 acres through the LAP Trust Fund as part of a pension scheme for its staff. He said they paid more than Sh40 million and Delle was the broker. The squatters were compensated, he said. Cases of land injustices are rampant in the Coast region. Last week, the NLC was in Watamu inquiring and investigating the illegal allocation of settlement schemes, including Kilifi Jimba.