Some MCAs in Embu claim their lives are in danger because of ongoing infigting in the assembly. Leader of the majority Michael Kariuki, leader of minority Lenny Mwaniki, Makima ward rep Phillip Nzangi and Muminji MCA Newton Kariuki claim they have been threatened several times. They also claimed their Speaker Josiah Thiriku is in danger. They further alleged to have been threatened for their protests against Water executive Patrick Waganagwa who allegedly imposed directors on Embu Water and Sanitation Company. Speaking during a press conference at the assembly on Wednesday, the MCAs said they also felt insecure after their failed attempt to impeach Majority Whip Margaret Kariuki. The decision was condemned and trashed by Jubilee Party. “We are ready to die over our oversight roles and we won’t stop because that is why we were elected by our electorate,” said Mwaniki. He claimed the MCAs protested against theft of revenue at collection points and therefore felt insecure. The ward reps however did not anyone for threatening them. MCA Kariuki said Waganagwa had violated a court order and imposed directors on the Embu Water and Sanitation Company, who had been rejected by the selection committee. He claimed some had forged academic papers and referees. He said they would summon the executive to explain why he did so and that if he gazettes the names they will impeach him. Kariuki claimed revenue was being stolen from collection point hurting revenues in the county. Embu is among the 18 counties rewarded with a total Sh6.8 billion by Treasury this year for growing revenue collection. The funds were part of the fiscal responsibility allocation disbursed to counties that increased their local revenue collection. Kariuki complained that ward representatives from other parts of Embu county were posted to Manyatta while there were no administrator from Manyatta working in other areas The MCAs urged Governor Martin Wambora to reign in cartel that had allegedly threatened them. They said the cartels were sabotaging the governor’s final term as they knew they would leave after his retirement. “We don’t want to repeat the kind of wrangles witnessed in the last six years and thus Governor Wambora should come in and intervene. The Speaker is doing a good job and cant just be removed in a simple way, ,” said Kariuki. Last month, the wrangle-ridden assembly impeached Deputy Speaker Paul Muchangi. The MCAs had an extended Assembly debating the impeachment motion that was tabled by Ruguru Ngandori MCA Sammy Muturi. The impeached deputy speaker put up a spirited fight in his defence against accusations levelled against him. Majority Leader in the Assembly Michael Njeru, accused Muchangi of failing in his mandate and lacking qualifications of a deputy speaker. He called for mutual respect between the Executive and the Assembly to enable them work together.