Gender has been on the lips of many for
years. And with the new disposition, gender equity has become possible but not
easy to achieve, especially in the patriarchal setting in Kenya and Africa in
general. Addressing gender inequality is first
and foremost a question of fairness. Women still have fewer career
opportunities, and earn on average 16 per cent less than men. It is also a
question of economic performance. There can be no robust growth economy without
gender equality, a critical ingredient of any strategy for durable, resilient
and more inclusive growth. Investment in women boosts economic development,
competitiveness, job creation and the GDP. On estimate, on average a 50 per
cent reduction in the gender gap in labour force participation would lead to an
additional gain in GDP of about six per cent by 2030, with a further six per
cent gain (12 per cent in total), if complete convergence occurred. Third, it is a question of sound
governance. Countries with a larger number of women as ministers, top
government policymakers or in Parliament tend to have lower levels of
inequality, more confidence in government and higher spending on health and
other social sectors. More women decisionmakers and influencers in public
sector means a more balanced perspective in designing and implementing new
rules and laws, and a more inclusive approach to policymaking and service
delivery. Last year’s elections showed that affirmative
action can produce positive results for marginalised populations including
women. Despite the persistence of a challenging environment for women’s
political aspirations and participation especially within political parties,
ever more women came out to vie at all levels save for the presidency. Kenya
lags behind most established democracies with respect to women’s
representation, participation and equality in opportunities. Women remain
underrepresented at the elective positions. The current uptick in women running for
political office and appointment to state/public office, while encouraging, is
unlikely to close this gender gap. To accelerate the pace of progress, Kenya
could learn from European experiences and push for measures that tackle broader
institutional barriers to equal political representation and participation. We need to invest in collecting and
analysing gender data to shed light on gender inequalities in education,
employment, entrepreneurship, governance, health and development. This will
help us show how far we are from achieving gender equality, and where actions
are most needed. To push this closing gender gap agenda further International
Center for Policy and Conflict is focussing on three main areas — good
governance and accountability for gender equality; closing leadership gender
gaps in public life and equal access to public employment and economic
opportunities. The problem in Kenya is not that women
win elections at lower rate than men: For a variety of factors women are simply
less likely to run for office. This is because the electoral system, party
structures, and a strong incumbency advantage exacerbate this imbalance. Women
are more likely to perceive the electoral environment to be highly competitive
and biased against them. Existing research typically attributes
this gender gap in political ambition to two main causes — gendered political
opportunity structures and differences in gender socialisation. If we would draw lessons from west
democracies, women are capable of winning elections and holding public office
at the same rate as men with equal opportunity. In European democracies,
proportional representation rules, party-driven candidate selection, and public
election financing have provided a more conducive institutional context for
women’s favourable environment. Most European parliaments have taken first
steps to take stock of and improve internal measures of gender equality. European
gender equality advocates have successfully lobbied for party-level gender
quotas and targets to ensure the systematic recruitment of female candidates. Several steps to ensure equal Access to
political office in the Kenya need to be taken, for instance; First, push political party to recruit
a more diverse slate of candidates and weaken the incentives for negative
campaigning. Secondly, institute mandatory recruitment targets for parties and
well-resourced party mechanisms to identify, recruit, and support women candidates.
Third establish gender parity targets for political action committees and
provide fundraising support to female candidates in primary campaigns to help
overcome current inequities in candidate financing. Fourth, collect systematic
data on gender equality and women’s experiences to identify current barriers to
women’s wining election and appointment to executive branches of government.
Finally, advocate for internal gender equality plans that set out specific
commitments to make legislatures and other branches of government more
gender-sensitive. It is worth noting that with the female
population being over 50 per cent and 46.6 per cent of the 19.6 million
registered voters, women's contribution to democracy in Kenya is imperative.