When I was a young man, I remember travelling 30 miles on foot to go listen
to national leaders such as Jomo Kenyatta, Tom Mboya, Bildad Kaggia, Masinde
Muliro and Jaramogi Odinga, whom we believed would liberate Kenyans, regardless
of their tribe. In following these leaders, I did not remember what tribe I was
or their’s. They were simply Kenyan leaders. Today, I hear Kikuyu mothers referring to their uninitiated sons as
inhuman animals, who without circumcision have no human worth. This makes me
wonder how inhuman we must regard other communities that don’t circumcise. If we embrace humanity, it will hardly matter who of us becomes
President, MP or MCA. This will also take away the sting of that scorpion we
call election, whose violence we continue to experience and simultaneously
swear against. We must remind leaders who preach unity that such togetherness will
remain illusionary and a mirage if we don’t have an ideology that unites and
makes us love one another, instead of clinging to the ideology of ethnic hate. If we turn our backs against negative ethnicity, we shall share power
and resources on the basis of merit and need, not ethnicity. And while imbued
with negative ethnicity, we shall also share resources equitably and not
scramble over them on a basis of greed.  As
we look for national unity, we shall pick our leaders based on services,
beliefs, ideologies and vision, not ethnic patriotism. Resultantly, we shall
have the best possible leaders and services, while our heroes and leaders will
be national not regional or ethnic. Those who base their ideology on negative ethnicity should never be
leaders. They can only do immeasurable harm to the country. Yet we accept ethnic
leaders and elect them to the highest offices and then complain of poor
services they never promised. People who discriminate and serve their communities with more zeal than
others should never be national leaders. As long as they depend on negative
ethnicity to perpetuate themselves in power, they will destroy our country and
annihilate “enemy” communities with ethnic massacres and genocide. To become one nation, we must not accept to be divided by greed of power
and wealth. When those in power divide and turn people against each other, the
people are easily subjected to fear, silence, exploitation, prosecution and
even death. But should Kenyans reject national unity, they should be ready for
consequences of hate, hostility, weakness, powerlessness, exploitation and
poverty. We must have leaders who will not divide Kenyans, whether for power or
wealth, in the name of their communities. There are no leaders who eat on
behalf of their communities. When politicians lead their ethnic communities supposedly for their
good, how can such leaders be trusted with the country? At best, these leaders
can only be trusted for the good of the county if dominated by their community.
Unfortunately, most politicians base their leadership on community support and
can only be defined as ethnic leaders that are of no good to the country. The challenge now is how tribalists can be removed from national
leadership. First, people must agree the country needs national, not ethnic
leaders who can only spell doom for the country. Indeed no country may develop if led by ethnic divisive leaders whose
purpose is to put themselves first and discriminate others in the name of
communities, with whom they share no loot. The issue of eliminating ethnic leaders is more urgent now that ever
before. Unless the country is united, it can neither stand nor develop. Failure
to wrestle and slay the dragon of negative ethnicity will spell doom and lead
to demise of country and nationalism. Look at all our leaders. They are all
ethnic before they are national.  