Nurses at Kenyatta National Hospital are demanding enhanced security. This follows a Saturday incident where a nurse was strangled by the relative of a patient who died after spending more than three-and-a-half months in a ward. The nurse is in the High Dependancy Unit. Nurses demanded respect from patients and their relatives. The hospital management also condemned the assault which has led to the arrest of one suspect. “You would think it was a wrestling match. The attacker beat her with a blunt object before jumping on her, covering her mouth and strangling her,” Kenya National Union of Nurses vice chairman Moses Chirchir said yesterday. KNH nurses temporarily held a demonstration demanding enhanced security. They resumed duty after several hours and said they will wait for the outcome of a meeting set for Thursday. KNH chief executive officer Thomas Mutie gave an account of the attack. He said the nurse was assaulted by relatives of a 17-year-old boy who succumbed to illness on Saturday at 4am. He had been admitted on June 27. The next of kin as detailed in the boy’s file was contacted. The deceased’s brother arrived at 7am and was briefed by the doctor and left. Mutie said at about 10am, a group of other relatives arrived in the ward and requested the nurse in charge to allow them to view the body. The nursing team leader requested them to sit at the waiting area while she proceeded to make arrangements for them to view the body. Another nurse was left at the desk attending to other patients. “Moments later, staff were attracted by screams from the nursing desk. When the ensuing scuffle was contained, it was established that one of the nurses who had been preparing medication for another patient had been assaulted by the deceased’s relatives at the nurses’ desk,” Mutie said. The CEO said the attack left the nurse unconscious and she was rushed to the Accident & Emergency Department. She was then admitted to the High Dependency Unit. She is still undergoing treatment. Hospital to foot bill Mutie said the hospital security and police apprehended the assailants and placed them under custody awaiting arraignment in court. “The hospital will work with the relevant authorities to ensure that such incidences do not recur and assure safety of patients and staff,” Mutie said. The management has also appealed to the public to understand the uncertainty of medical outcomes. “In the event of any grievances, we encourage our customers to follow the laid down mechanisms,” Mutie said. Knun Kenyatta branch leader Steven Rutere said staff had temporarily called off the strike after seeing the management’s remorse. “A committee will sit down on Thursday for a roundtable to address the issue of insecurity and other grievances,” he said. Rutere said the hospital will pay for the expenses of the nurse’s treatment. They were satisfied with the arrest of the attacker. Rutere said the other grievances that will be addressed include nonpayment of locum workers for three months. “We are demanding the management to recognise our union,” he said. Knun secretary general Seth Panyako said some workers are suffering because they do not belong to a union through which they could channel their grievances. He said there is inadequate security for nurses and patients. He cited the case of a patient being murdered in September 2016.