The Homa Bay County Assembly Chambers this week became a boxing ring. The match on Tuesday was the culmination of a month-long power struggle between two factions already aiming for 2022. One faction is led by Majority leader and Kwabwai MCA Richard Ogindo and his Kanyadoto counterpart Walter Muok, both of ODM. Ogindo, deputy Ruth Ombura, Majority Chief Whip Sophie Salim and deputy Jane Kiche were allegedly removed and replaced by Muok (Majority leader), Julius Nyambok (deputy), Dan Were (Majority Chief Whip) and Mary Ojala as his deputy. Ogindo has been accused of playing divisive politics, mismanaging assembly funds, showing disrespect to elected leaders — the governor, some MPs and his fellow MCAs and staff. They also accuse him of failing to lead the assembly in oversighting the county executive, legislation and representation. Ogindo, in his defence, has accused the MCAs of engaging in negative politics, and said some senior elected and appointed county leaders are behind his troubles. He says the main problem involves the loss of millions of shillings of fuel funds, which was raised in the assembly. Ogindo says some MCAs improperly spent the  funds with the help of county staff, whom he alleges have been funding his opponents.  HIGHER OFFICE The politics of 2022 has  kicked off. Some elected leaders are already positioning themselves to take over from those serving their last last terms, or aiming for higher positions.  Suba South MP John Mbadi, who is also the ODM national chairman, has already declared he will not run again for Parliament, where he is serving his third term. Woman Representative Gladys Wanga has also hinted that she will vie for a higher position, urging supporters to “save their best clothes for a major journey when the right time comes.” She says she is committed to serving the people of Homa Bay and will announce her political goal at the right time. The two politicians enjoy the support of the two factions in the house — considered the main cause of the wrangles in preparations for 2022. Before the split in the house, Wanga had been supported by the majority of the 58 elected and two independent MCAs. Wanga enjoys the support of the Ogindo-led team, while Mbadi has the support of the Muok camp of ODM, which speaker Elizabeth Ayoo says numbers  29. Last week, a special sitting was called to endorse the new leadership, which was chaired by Gwassi North MCA and deputy speaker Evance Marieba. It was only attended by the Were-led faction. Ayoo, however, dismissed the endorsement saying it was done without following the Constitution. She said the deputy speaker’s position no longer exists. She was threatened with impeachment by Muok’s team. On Tuesday the MCAs roughed her up for allegedly being biased. According to Homa Bay Bunge la Mwananchi speaker Walter Opiyo, the major cause of division is 2022 politics. He said Mbadi and Wanga are behind it. “The two leaders want to ensure they marshal enough support in the House for their 2022 ambitions,"Opiyo said. “It is no longer a secret that Ogindo and his team, who mostly consist of nominated MCAs, support Wanga; the Muok-led team, mostly elected MCAs, supports Mbadi,” Opiyo said. Ogindo’s camp has been accompanying the woman representative to various functions, where they have been drumming up support for her as the next governor. This is playing out in Mbadi’s camp as well. “The leaders have been having various private meetings with the wrangling sides as a way to push their political agendas. And I'm not afraid to say that some county executives strategising for various positions are involved in the mess,” he said.  IMPLICATIONS The lawmakers were scheduled to resume their sittings on Tuesday after a long recess but this did not happen. Instead, the MCAs engaged in fistfights, and roughed up the speaker, who ran for her life. Hundreds of youths from around the county had been ferried to the assembly premises as early as 3am. Contingents of police officers were deployed to restrain the youths who tried to force their way into the assembly premises. The house turned chaotic and the sitting was suspended to avert further clashes among the MCAs. The issues lined up included the taking of office by the new team and initiating removal of the speaker. On Wednesday, the morning sitting was delayed for more than half an hour after the speaker’s mace went missing. On Friday last week during the burial of former Rangwe MP Ouma Muga, ODM leader Raila Odinga warned the MCAs against continued fighting, saying it hurts and county and holds back development. He told the MCAs and leaders who are aiming for seats in 2022 to stop early campaigning and ensure they serve the electorate. The ODM leader also told MCAs to use the public funds prudently to benefit residents, the purpose of devolution. He promised to engage with the members to ensure unity and help the county progress.  REBELS REJECT SUMMONSES ODM disciplinary committee chairman Fred Athuok wrote to the rebel MCAs, summoning them to appear on October 11. They are accused of defying party directives on the House leadership by purportedly making changes. “The rebel MCAs are expected to appear before the committee to show cause why disciplinary action, including suspension of their membership or expulsion from the party, should not be taken against them with regards to violation of the party constitution…,” the letter read. However, according to Were, the assembly will not tolerate any interference from any ODM leader or official. He says they have Standing Orders that guide them in their House business. “We have no war with ODM. What we will never accept is interference from any official, be it elected or appointed, to move in and divide the assembly for their own benefit,” Were said. “We respect and love the party. However, the activities of the assembly are guided by the Standing Orders. We are telling  the party officials to stop writing intimidation letters to the members. We are mature enough and we know where we are as the assembly,” he said On Thursday the Employment and Labor Relations Court issued a conservatory order requiring the speaker and the clerk to provide Ogindo and his team with administrative support and security to access to work from their offices uninterrupted — pending outcome of the case.   