Kenyans are at risk of losing jobs if the education system does not equip students with skills in technology to counter the impending massive use of robots, IMF has said. In a report released on Friday, the International Monetary Fund said African countries, including Kenya, are at risk of job losses occasioned by the anticipated Fourth Industrial Revolution where companies will heavily rely on machines. Those lacking skills in information technology in Sub-Saharan Africa will lose jobs especially in the export sector where robots will be mostly used. “Whether technology becomes a substitute for or a complement to labour is not necessarily a force beyond our control. This puts a high premium on education to empower the youth to succeed in the changing the world of work,” reads the 69-page report. The looming job losses will affect all sectors of the economy, IMF said. “The Fourth Industrial Revolution wind is sweeping not only in developed countries but also across developing nations where firms are capitalising on machines to boost productivity,” IMF said. Read: Robot automation will 'take 800 million jobs by 2030' - report Companies are investing more in machines than human labour and physical capital to increase production. IMF asked students to adapt to digital literacy. Colleges have also been encouraged to equip learners with crucial skills to withstand the robot revolution. “There is considerable uncertainty over what specific skills will be needed. As such, education systems will need to be flexible while ensuring full enrollment and introducing technology in every classroom,” the report says. Kenyans had high hopes of digital literacy when the Jubilee administration launched the Laptop project where children in lower primary were top get the devices. But the Digital Learning Programme which sought to entrench information and communication technology in teaching and learning process in primary schools has derailed since its launch in May 2016. Laptops were replaced with tablets due to costs but some 23,951 primary schools have not received the gadgets. Most have either been stolen or are no longer in use. IMF faults Kenya and other African governments for concentrating on traditional infrastructure such as roads, railways and ports in opening upon their countries for business with minimal investment plans in technology. “Experience within the region demonstrates that if there is adequate digital infrastructure and a supportive business environment, new forms of business spring up and increase the efficiency of existing sectors,” the report says. Many jobs in export market would be affected indirectly if robots replace the continent’s position in value chains, IMF said. More: Guest Column: Rise of the machines Click here for
the latest political news