National Assembly Majority leader Aden Duale has lashed out at “political brokers and opportunists” out to divide his community. Duale on Monday took issue with the recent feuding between his supporters and those of Governor Ali Korane. He blamed it on wheeler-dealers. A visibly angry Duale warned “the selfish individuals” that they will not succeed. He accused them of working round the clock to cause disharmony in the community. He did not name names. “These characters are mere brokers. They’re busy working day and night to peddle lies and half-truths so they are given money or awarded contracts. We know them and will shame them in broad daylight,” Duale said in Bura East, Fafi subcounty. elders disagree Recently some elders, led by Aden Gamadid from Duale’s Abduwak clan, linked the Garissa Township MP to Korane’s woes. In a statement, they accused Duale of “influencing the arrest” of Korane for allegedly being behind the attempted assassination of former Garissa Finance executive Idris Mukhtar on August 19. The former county officer is still fighting for his life at Nairobi Hospital. Korane was questioned and released. He denies wrongdoing. Mukhtar was shot because he allegedly planned to expose Korane’s dubious academic papers, jeopardising his office and career. Another team of elders, led by Abduwak Sultan Dekow Sambul, defended Duale and accused his critics of seeking to malign him. The elders dismissed Gamadid’s allegations, saying they were personal and not the position of the Abduwak clan. Duale and Korane are from the same subclan — Rer Yahya. The legislator said he has cordial working ties with Korane, hence, his decision to accompany the county boss on his tour of the subcounty. “Our people want to see their leaders united and working together to spur development. That’s exactly what we should strive to do,” he said. Korane steered clear of the issue. He called for unity and peace among leaders and residents. “I appeal to the leaders at the national and the county levels to better the lives of the people faced with myriad of challenges,” Korane said. The county chief urged residents to support his administration so together they can transform the economy of the county and ensure shared prosperity.   