City Hall could be losing millions of shillings due to lack of a functional weighbridge to measure the exact amount of waste delivered at Dandora dumpsite for payments. This emerged yesterday during a meeting between the Environment committee and the county chief environment officers at the county headquarters. The committee was told the county has been paying contractors based on “estimations" since August 5, when its eight year-old weighbridge broke down. Environment chief officer David Makori told the committee that City Hall currently estimates deliveries based on past quantities recorded by the old weighbridge before it broke down. “We are using scientific method that is next to reality to estimate the amount of waste delivered,” Makori said. Makori said the county acquired a new weighbridge two years ago but it is yet to be installed because there is no ramp. It is lying idle at the county’s yard along Nanyuki Road since it was procured through Gokhan Technical Services. “We placed an advertisement for a ramp but there was no response. We are going to place it again this year,” he said. The stalled weighbridge was installed in 2007 and has been breaking down due to old-age and procurement hurdles have made it hard to repair it. But the committee chaired Komarok MCA James Kamau was dissatisfied by the ‘estimation method’ saying it could an avenue by the corrupt officers to defraud the county. “This is thuggery and the county is losing millions every week,” Minority chief whip Peter Imwatok said. The county pays contractors monthly based on the quantity measured by the weighbridge and delivered at the 30 acre waste-yard. City Hall currently has contracted nine firms – each with at least eight trucks - to collect and deliver garbage at the Dandora dumpsite. Makori did not state the amount the county has paid the contractors since the weighbridge stalled but said it is in millions of shillings. Imwatok questioned why the county officers failed to procure the weighbridge together with the ramp and why the new equipment cannot use the ramp of the stalled weighbridge. In response, Makori said, the procurement was made based on the available funds and the new machine cannot run on the old ramp because they are not compatible. Dandora IV MCA Francis Otieno said workers working at site do not have protective gears gametes and tools to operate, thus often fall sick. “Every day, these people come to my office saying they are sick because they do not even have masks to protect themselves. I am forced to use my money from pocket to take them to the hospital,” he said. He said that the county has not been engaging the locals on the plans to set up a recycling plant at the site, adding the project may fail if they are ignored.