The Hairdresser of Harare by Tendai Huchu Vimbai is the best hairdresser in her Harare salon, but things turn sour when she starts to lose customers to smooth-talking Dumisani. When Dumisani is looking for somewhere to live, she becomes his landlady. The two strike up an unlikely friendship, and Dumisani introduces Vimai to his family, where she is surprised to discover he hails from one of the wealthiest families in Harare. But the new friendship unravels amidst the exposure of a secret that will end in tragedy. A humorous story of friendship and forgiveness from Zimbabwe.  Tomorrow I’ll be Twenty, Alain Mabanckou Finalist for the Man Booker International Prize two years ago, this funny novel charts the childhood of Michel, a 10-year-old living in Pointe Noire, Congo, in the 1970s. Inspired by the books his father brings home, which are left by white guests at the hotel where he works, Michel and his friend, Lounes, dream about faraway lands. Against the backdrop of unfolding international crises and girl troubles, Michel is told by a witchdoctor he must find the key to his mother’s womb, if she is to have another child. His sets on a quest to find it.  Stay With Me, Ayobami Adebayo As Yejide tells it in the first chapter, she was barren and her husband took another wife. She and her husband, Akin, are a young Nigerian couple who decide early on in their courtship that polygamy is not for them. But Yejide fails to fall pregnant after trying for several years, all the while visiting healers and mystics. Akin is forced by his relatives to take a second wife, with quite appallingly tragic consequences. This debut novel by Adebayo is brilliant, tragic and tear-jerking.  Ghana Must Go, Taiye Selasi The story starts with a death in Ghana, that of Kweku Sai. He dies in his garden, his last moments filled with regret for the abandonment of his family in the US after losing his job. He leaves behind an ex-wife, a wife and four children, who come to terms with his passing in their own way. His death brings his scattered family back together to gather for his funeral in Ghana, where so much that is hidden is finally brought to the surface, and laid to rest.  Red Nile, Robert Twigger: The author charts the history of the world’s most mighty river in this entertaining account, leaping from the excesses of the Pharoahs to Victorian sex cruises to the sometimes inglorious escapades of explorers. Twigger calls the river red for a variety of reasons, not least because of the amount of blood spilled for it. “The Nile,” he writes, “is the river of death.”