That county governments have become the bastion of graft is not a secret any more. What people are asking is why the the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission is not striking hard at this citadel. Yesterday, we told you of a Lentinina whose accounts have been frozen in Samburu county. Corridors has learnt that yet another woman, a Mugambi from the County assembly of Meru, has had her accounts frozen. It’s said that nearly 40 million was suspiciously been wired into her account over the past five years which cannot be explained. Corridors will tell you more about these scandals. You can call it greed or selfish pursuit of riches. But the behaviour of a member of one of the independent commissions has puzzled many who are aware of his maneuvers. The commissioner from northern Kenya known to have deep pockets wants to leap from his current job to another commission. Sources whispered to Corridors that the man has already reached out to the selection panelists to influence them to hand him the job. It’s not clear whether money changed hands but after serving for nearly six years, people are asking why he can’t bow out with honour and give other Kenyans a chance to serve. An MP from the Kisii region with a streak for deception has been exposed. The MP has allegedly been painting iron sheets in schools and posting photos on social media indicating that the buildings have been refurbished. One of the MCAs from his home ward smoked him out over the weekend when he personally went to the school with a certain group of youth and took pictures of the inside part of the sheets. The sheets were old and corrugated. However, before the MCA could upload the pictures on social media, his team was reportedly attacked by goons sent by the MP who destroyed their phones to erase evidence. The cunning second-term MP then sent his team to the school that night, removed the old iron sheets and replaced them with new ones to clear any claims of fraud. A Kisumu businessman of Asian extraction is on the spot. He is accused of selling vehicles whose year age is not allowed in Kenya and running a car theft syndicate with protection from some police officers. Recently, he sold a Probox alleged to have been stolen in Nairobi to a local security firm. Locals, including a former lawmaker, accuse the trader who came to Kenya more than 10 years ago as a ‘contractor’ of selling defective vehicles. Records of some vehicles cannot be traced and those with ‘issues’ are quickly towed and hidden in his yard. Locals want police to investigate him for breaching import regulations as well as tax evasion. Click here for the latest political news