Migori Governor Okoth Obado has been barred by the court from setting foot into Homa Bay county as part of the stringent conditions for his bail. This is to ensure he does not interfere with witnesses especially in Homa Bay, which is also home to Sharon Otieno. The Rongo University student was murdered and her body found in Kodero Forest in Homa Bay last month together with her unborn child. The governor, who is has been charged with Sharon's murder, got a reprieve when he was released on Sh5 million bail on Wednesday. In her ruling, High Court judge Jessie Lesiit restricted the governor from going to Sharon's home county. “He shall not go anywhere within 20kms of Homa Bay boundary from all sides of the county,” Lesiit said. Read: Okoth Obado released on Sh5m cash bail in Sharon's murder The governor risks having his bail cancelled if he contacts or intimidates any of the witnesses, whether directly or by proxy. The witness statements and other documents have been supplied by the state to the defence. Obado has been warned against intimidating the parents, siblings, or other close relations of the deceased. “He shall refrain from mentioning or discussing the deceased or this case in any gatherings or political meetings whether public or private,” the judge said. Lesiit said the governor will report once a month to the deputy registrar of this court and he shall not cause an adjournment of the case. Obado is facing two murder charges alongside his personal assistant Michael Oyamo and Migori county Clerk Caspal Obiero.  Full list of conditions: 1. The 1st accused may be released upon deposit into court of a cash bail in the sum of KES 5 Million; 2. In addition, the 1st accused will provide two sureties of KES 5 Million each 3. The 1st accused must deposit all his travel documents including his Kenyan, East African and Diplomatic passports which he holds – if he has any. 4. The court will be at liberty to cancel his bail and bond and to remand the 1st accused in custody if any of the following conditions, which I hereby set as part of the terms upon which he is released, are breached: I. He shall not cause an adjournment in this case. II. He shall report once a month to the deputy registrar of this court. III. He shall not go anywhere within 20Kms of Homabay County boundary on all sides of that county. IV. He shall not contact or intimidate, whether directly or by proxy, any of the witnesses in this case as per the witness statements and other documents that have been supplied by the State to the defence. V. He shall not intimidate the parents, siblings, or other close relations of the deceased. VI. He shall refrain from mentioning or discussing the deceased or this case in any gatherings or political meetings whether public or private. Click here for the latest political news     