Strong winds of more than 25 knots are expected to hit parts of Coastal region from today up to Friday. The meteorological department has issued a warning to fishermen and beach-goers. "Strong southerly to southeasterly winds of more than 25knots are expected over the eastern half of the country and the Northwest," the weatherman said on Tuesday. The department also says that rainfall is expected over several parts of the country mainly within the Coast, the Northeast, the Southeast Lowlands and parts of the Central Highlands. The Lake Victoria Basin and the Highlands West of the Rift Valley, Central and South Rift Valley are likely to experience sunny intervals in the morning and afternoon. It noted that the areas will receive evening showers over a few places throughout the forecast period. The counties include; Siaya, Kisumu, Homabay, Migori, Kisii, Nyamira, Trans Nzoia, Baringo, UasinGishu, Elgeyo-Marakwet, Nandi, Laikipia, Nakuru, Kericho, Bomet, Kakamega, Vihiga, Bungoma and Busia. In Northwestern, the will be sunny intervals during the day and partly cloudy conditions during the night throughout the forecast period. Read: Met warns of strong, dangerous winds along Coastal region This includes the counties of Turkana, West Pokot and Samburu. In Central, the residents are likely to experience early morning cloudiness with rains over few places during the second half of the forecast period. "The remaining mornings are likely to experience cloudiness that will give way to sunny intervals," it said. Afternoon and night showers are also expected over a few places throughout the forecast period. This includes; Nairobi, Nyandarua, Nyeri, Kirinyaga, Murang'a, Kiambu, Meru, Embu, and Tharaka Nithi. Northeastern counties (Marsabit, Mandera, Wajir, Garissa and Isiolo) are likely to experience morning rains and afternoon/night showers over few places throughout the forecast period. Southeastern Lowlands (Counties of Kajiado, Kitui, Makueni, Machakos and Taita Taveta) are likely to experience sunny intervals in the morning on Tuesday and Wednesday. Morning rains are expected over a few places on the other days. Afternoon/evening showers are expected over a few places throughout the forecast period. Click here for the latest political news