Devolution CS Eugene Wamalwa has asked ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi and his Ford Kenya counterpart Moses Wetang’ula to dissolve their parties by December. Eugene, who accompanied the two during the funeral of Gabriel Waneloba, father of high school principal Cosmus Nabungolo in Tongaren, said the two parties should be dissolved to pave way for a new political vehicle, which will be used to consolidate Western votes in 2022. “I urge my two big brothers Weta and Mudavadi to dissolve their parties so that we can announce our new political vehicle during this year’s Maragoli festival on December 26,” Eugene said on Saturday. Mudavadi said they will put the same efforts put to form Nasa to ensure one of their own occupies State House in 2022. “I gave my best to Nasa. Wetang’ula gave his best to Nasa and Cord as Eugene did his best for Jubilee. The time has come to apply the same efforts to support ourselves,” he said. Mudavadi said no Kenyan should dream that a Luhya leader will put together their votes and sell them to another person. He added that he will resist any attempts in their grouping to sell their votes to another presidential candidate from another community. Wetang’ula said they are determined to ensure Western region votes as a bloc in 2022. The three spoke after Kimilili MP Didmus Barasa lashed at them for being “self-centred”. “Even if a woman carries four babies at the same time, she will deliver one by one. Not all of them can come out at the same time. It is shameful that Mudavadi,Weta, Eugene and Oparanya want to be delivered at the same time. Will the mother remain alive?” he asked. Barasa said he will be the first person to defect from Jubilee if the Luhya come up with a single party and support a presidential candidate from the community. Other leaders who were present were Senate Speaker Ken Lusaka, Woman representative Janet Nangabo and Tongaren MP Eseli Simiyu. Last week, ANC ruled out the possibility of merging with Ford Kenya over suspicion of infiltration by Deputy President William Ruto. Secretary general Barrack Muluka said although ANC wanted to merge, “the body language of Ford Kenya suggests the contrary”. I am happy that Wetang’ula has said the merger is on course. I want to remind him, and he knows, that Ruto is a competitor. We cannot organise ourselves and unite and go to a competitor. What type of science is this? I have spoken,” Mudavadi said in Kakamega during the funeral service of 34 victims of the Fort Ternan bus crash. Wetang’ula was among the Luhya leaders present. Former Kakamega senator and Ford Kenya deputy leader Boni Khalwale said then that he was in talks with President Uhuru Kenyatta and the DP to support a Luhya candidate in 2022. He formally joined the DP’s camp last Sunday. 