Makueni governor Kivutha Kibwana has told residents displaced by Thwake Dam and not yet compensated to be patient. He said the process is on course.The government is yet to compensate some residents displaced by the Sh64 billion project. The dam will be constructed where rivers Thwake and Athi meet. The dam covers Makueni, Machakos and Kitui counties. Kibwana said he is aware the National Land Commission is verifying the remaining people to avoid paying the wrong beneficiaries. The governor spoke to residents in Kalawa when he inspected county projects at the weekend. “We have met Water CS Simon Chelugui and he promised the funds will be released once the National Land Commission gets the correct figure on the remaining households,” Kibwana said. He said previously, the process had been disrupted by cartels. When Chelugui visited Makueni in August, he said they were six months behind schedule but promised the project would be completed within 56 weeks. “Compensation is one of the issues that could impede the project. We have Sh700 million to pay the remaining 170 people displaced by the project,” Chelugui said. Two weeks ago, Kibwana in a meeting with the CS said the government is committed to ensure all those whose land was taken by the project have been paid. He said despite Thwake Dam being a national government project, he is working with other elected leaders to ensure the displaced will not be subjected to abject poverty or made squatters. “We are your eyes. The senator, MPs and I are in constant talks with the national government. I want to assure you that no one will be evicted, even those who were partially compensated,” Kibwana said. Kibwana said he will ensure the project benefits residents. Last week, Chelugui said more than Sh2.8 billion has been paid out as land compensation to persons affected by Thwake Dam project. The CS said 1,606 residents have been fully compensated a total of Sh2,844,648,868. “Processing of payment is ongoing and it is expected that payments will be finalised within a month from September 25. Approximately Sh700 million will be remitted to the National Land Commission for disbursement,” he said in a statement. The CS said 9,158 acres will be acquired for the dam project that will affect 1,792 households.