A caucus of politicians wants Kenyans to push for the electoral justice and a review of huge taxes. The former MPs decried the situation of the handshake taskforce formed by President Uhuru Kenyatta and Opposition leader Raila Odinga ignoring calls for electoral reforms and the higher taxes. However, the team is yet to issue its report. It was given a year to come up with recommendations to build lasting peace and unity in the country. The Building Bridges task force, as it is popularly known, is considering the issues in the 9-point agenda the preceded the March 9 handshake. "We must have a national conversation on high taxes and huge debts caused by corruption and wastage of public resources. We have come together to find ways on how Kenyans can have good leadership," former Mbeere MP Mutava Musyimi said. He spoke on behalf of dozens of former MPs at a Nairobi hotel on Tuesday. The former legislators said they are forming a strong movement to push for the desired reforms. They spoke of a plan to hold the first rally in Nairobi before the year ends. "We are working for what is good for us. We can’t be silent when we have the electoral violence cycle that leaves many tortured, injured and dead," Musyimi said. The team also wants Kenyans to set up a tribunal on corruption and find lasting solutions. They say Kenyans are being highly taxed to fund debts and corruption. Former Kitutu Masaba MP Timothy Bosire said: "We cannot negotiate on the fight against corruption. The President is doing a good job, but we want the money that has been stolen recovered, and the culprits jailed." The leaders want the government structure reorganised and the size of Parliament relooked to avoid duplication of roles. They said the positions in the counties and national government must be harmonised. Former Mukurwe-ini MP Kabando wa Kabando said, “Critics can say anything they want, but they won't stop us. Once a leader, always a leader. We serve our country all the time." "Most of us have served this country even before we were elected. We were in the private sector or  civil society to serve Kenyans before we were elected." The leaders said a national dialogue is important to unite the country and push for good leadership. Former Kajiado senator Peter Mositet said: "Problems such as corruption, high taxation, wastage and public debt need to be addressed." Click here for the latest political news