 Lawyers of the 11 Kenya Power managers charged over the procurement of Sh4.5 billion defective transformers on Friday accused the state of harassing the accused persons. They told chief magistrate Felix Kombo that the manner in which former legal secretary Beatrice Meso and former supply chain manager John Ombui were arrested in the courtroom and taken to DCI headquarters immediately he walked out of the courtroom is an indication that there were orders from elsewhere to detain them. Senior counsel Assa Nyakundi said the dramatic manner in which the two were arrested amounted to abduction. Nyakundi, lawyers Katwa Kigen, Migos Ogamba and Kirathe Wandugi obtained orders restraining the DCI from detaining the 11 suspects over the weekend. The DCI is investigating the disappearance of the Energy Regulation Commission report on the substandard transformers and some of the managers are suspected to be behind it. Some of the detectives who arrested Meso and Ombui were in the courtroom to arrest former managing director Ben Chumo after the proceedings. And the lawyers were apprehensive that the sleuths wanted to arrest all their clients, but the detectives said they only wanted Chumo. The report is the basic evidence in the case where Chumo, his successor Stephen Tarus, Meso and Ombui, and seven others are charged with abuse of office and failure to comply with procurement regulations. Read: Kenya Power ex-CEO Ben Chumo to be charged on corruption claims HARASSMENT Senior counsel Assa Nyakundi, lawyers Migos Ogamba and Katwa Kigen sought orders barring the DCI from keeping their clients in police cells. They demanded a confirmation from the state counsel Solomon Njeru that the accused persons will not be arrested after the court’s session. Njeru had confirmed to the court that most of the missing documents had been recovered and that Kenya Power had promised the remaining will be availed. He said the detectives had indicated they only wanted Chumo to record a statement. Kombo issued orders to have Chumo’s statement taken between 2 and 4pm before he is released. The lawyers accused the ODPP and DCI of harassing the suspects. “Ombui retired from KPLC in 2017 and requiring him to go and retrieve documents from an office he already left is harassment,” Nyakundi said. Nyakundi said the fact that the assistant DPP Alexander Muteti said the documents went missing while in custody of the KPLC and Njeru confirmed that they were retrieved from the same firm’s offices is an indication that Ombui and Meso had nothing to do with the disappearance. Ogamba said the detectives only “wanted their company as they went to recover the documents from KPLC because the two have not had access to the company’s offices since they were charged”. Also Read: MPs reject Ben Chumo's nomination as SRC chair over integrity “Meso and Ombui are not KPLC and trying to draw an annexus between them and nonexistent missing documents is a gross violation of their rights,” Ogamba said. The case will be heard between December 17 and 21. Chumo and Tarus were charged alongside 11 other KPLC managers. Click here for the latest political news