Environmental management and Water Resources authorities have given a developer of a residential property in Nyayo Highrise, Nairobi 14 days' demolition notice. The National Environment Management Authority and WRA, in a notice to the Edermann Property on Friday, said the building sits on Nairobi Dam's riparian reserve. The developer has also been ordered to restore the reserve within 90 days on grounds it is affecting the flow of Ngong River. The 12-storey building has 260 houses. Edermann management has also been ordered to report to the Nema deputy director of enforcement on Monday, October 15, with a legal adviser. "Demolish the structure within 14 days effective this order, failure to which it will be pulled down without further reference to you," the order reads in part. Nema has held that the building was put up in contravention of Cap 387 of the Environmental Management and Co-ordination Act (EMCA). John Rajwayi, the Seefar Apartments proprietor, said there was a misunderstanding on the said orders adding that the water resources agency approved the boundary for the construction works. "They told us that they misplaced the instructions in the file and we expect them to come on Monday to cancel the order since we followed the laid down requirement." Rajwayi said: "The building is 22 metres from the dam and is, hence, way far from the boundary line." Over half of the buildings built on riparian land have been brought down since demolition began in Nairobi in July. Nema's Julius Wanjau earlier said over 2,000 structures had been earmarked for demolition by a multi-agency task force and had been served with notice. Most of the buildings are in Westlands, Parklands and along Limuru Road, Lang’ata Road, Arboretum Road, Spring Valley, Globe Cinema roundabout, and Riverside Drive. Key blocks already brought down are the South End Mall, Ukay Mall, Taj Mall (also Airgate), among other structures on riparian reserves. See: [VIDEO] Java Kileleshwa hit as NEMA demolishes structures on riparian land Click here for the latest political news 