Tax on fuel products drove up production costs last month, dampening growth in private sector activity. The Stanbic Bank Purchasing Managers Index released yesterday shows higher government taxation and rising fuel bills resulted in the sharpest increase in average cost burdens to manufacturers since February. This in return was reflected in increased selling prices, which grew the fastest since the survey commenced in 2014. “Slowdowns in output and new order growth were key factors behind the lower headline PMI figure. In terms of inflation, price pressures sharpened amid reports of higher taxation and fuel bills,” the report stated. President Uhuru Kenyatta has signed into law the Finance Bill 2018 that imposes eight per cent VAT on petroleum among other amendments on various taxes. This has not only increased the cost of production but has resulted in higher transport costs as firms seek to meet their profit margins. The monthly Stanbic Bank Kenya PMI shows operations in the private sector shrunk by 190 basis points from August’s 54.6 to 52.7. The highest recorded activity was in April at 56.4. The monthly indicator is based on activity in the manufacturing and service sectors with readings above 50 signalling an improvement in business conditions, while any figure below this indicates poor performance. Stanbic economist Jibran Qureishi said the decline should not be a cause for alarm. He however noted that the new tax measures would slowdown the country’s GDP growth. Kenya’s GDP growth rate expanded 6.3 per cent in the second quarter 2018 from 5.7 per cent in the first quarter. “However, cost pressures and enhanced business uncertainty due to new fiscal year tax measures in the third quarter, is likely to moderate the pace of GDP growth,” Qureishi said. The report shows agriculture, ICT and tourism sectors continue to report growth under the new tax regime as the tax on fuel does not have a blanket effect.New orders, finished goods and new business grew last month although at a much slower pace while foreign demand for Kenyan goods grew at an accelerated pace during the period. The growth in new export orders, as per the report, was driven by increased marketing initiatives by firms to gain international exposure and acquire new clients. Private firms also recruited more employees last month to meet increased output requirements and capacity pressures. “That said, the rate of growth in new hires was below the series’ long-run average,” the report stated.