Education CS Amina Mohamed has been spending sleepless nights to ensure the national examinations do not leak. The Jomo Kenyatta International Airport is her new home. She has been on the ground monitoring the arrival, repackaging and dispatch of exam papers. Yesterday’s batch arrived two hours early. The papers were to land at the JKIA at 3am but arrived at 1pm. After helping the team with the packaging and dispatch, she sleeps in her official car, waiting for the next consignment. The government did not hire people to offload the large exam boxes. The work is being done by the police and Knec officials. Amina spends long hours sleeping in her official car waiting for the offloading to end in order to oversee the dispatch. ********* Just what did NASA chief Raila Odinga mean by crocodile-infested River Jordan where the Canaan journey grounded to a halt? Well. Former Kitutu Masaba MP Timothy Bosire claims Deputy President William Ruto has distorted the meaning altogether with his ‘literal’ interpretation of the ‘crocodiles’. The ODM treasurer accuses Ruto of misleading Kenyans with a lopsided inference without looking at the ‘deep’ meaning of what Raila meant. Isn’t it time ‘Baba’ came out and explained what the crocodiles in River Jordan are and their link to the handshake? Raila’s prowess in vitendawili is unrivalled, but the DP could use a few classes, Bosire says. ******* A political heavyweight from Western Kenya, who is also a key Jubilee Party point man in the region, could soon land himself in hot soup. The MP, who has recently demonstrated a deep-pockets mentality, is among politicians from the region accused of running down the once-giant Mumias Sugar Company. It is alleged that the MP was among those who pocketed millions after the government released billions of shillings to bail out the struggling sugar firm last year. A mole tells Corridors of Power that the EACC and the DCI are closing in on a number of politicians said to have defrauded the factory of millions of shillings. Investigations are said to have been completed and officers awaiting the DPP’s approval before the politician and his ilk are arrested and prosecuted. Click here for the latest political news   