Deputy President William Ruto’s allies want ODM leader Raila Odinga to quit local politics and focus on his new role as an AU envoy. More than 20 MPs yesterday said in Eldoret that Raila should not mix his new job with domestic issues. Raila has been appointed High Representative for Infrastructure Development in Africa. The AU Commission said his appointment is part of the union’s drive to fast-track integration of the continent through infrastructure to promote economic growth and sustainable development. The legislators said Ruto’s route to power was now clear with Raila’s ‘exit’. They included Oscar Sudi (Kapseret), Robert Pkose (Endebess), West Pokot woman representative Lillian Tomitom, Didmus Barasa (Kimilili), Githua Mashukuru (Kabete), Kimani Ichung’wa (Kikuyu), Sylvanus Osoro (South Mugirango) and Kiharu’s Ndindi Nyoro. Their remarks come amid claims from the DP’s critics that he is using his allies to campaign for his 2022 presidential bid. Ruto has dismissed the allegations and said he is “focussed on development”. “We don’t want to hear politics of tibim and tialala anymore from him. Let him go to his new office in South Africa and work from there,” Barasa said. Osoro urged the Kalenjins to back Ruto fully because he deserves to succeed Uhuru in 2022. “Out there, we’re organised well to back Ruto. We ask you, the people of Rift Valley, not to let us down,” he said. Tomitom responded that Ruto will have no problem getting full support from his backyard. Kiharu MP Ndindi Nyoro urged Raila to ensure his NASA allies Kalonzo Musyoka and Musalia Mudavadi also get international jobs. He said Mt Kenya will back the DP. Read: African Union appoints Raila as a special envoy for infrastructure “I want to tell Kalenjins that we in Mt Kenya have no one’s debt, but we have a lot of love for DP Ruto,” Nyoro said. Kapseret MP Oscar Sudi told Raila to thank God for his new job. “Let him now identify a church and attend every Sunday. He has been claiming his votes were stolen every other time because it seems he did not believe in God,” he said. Ichung’wa said Uhuru had promised to rule for 10 years then Ruto would take over in 2022. “Those of us in Central have no doubt Ruto will succeed Kenyatta and continue the 20-year Jubilee transformation agenda,” he said. Ichung’wa also waded into the referendum debate and warned that they will oppose proposals to create the position of executive PM. “Kenyans will not accept to have MPs, who are bought with Sh10,000 dished out in toilets, be the same ones electing an executive prime minister,” the legislator said. Read: Uhuru congratulates Raila for AU appointment Click here for the latest political news