Rongo University students on Friday hijacked the funeral and buried their murdered colleague Sharon Otieno. She was the lover of Migori governor Okoth Obado who is awaiting trial for her murder and that of her foetus — his son. The students said the church was taking ‘too much time making sermons’ before burying Sharon. The ceremony was presided over by Wilson Wandago, Seventh-day Adventist Church director of Victoria Field. Hundreds of students arrived at Sharon’s grandfather’s home in Magare village, Homa Bay, at 2.30 pm. They braved drizzling weather and sang songs in praise of Sharon for almost an hour. When Wandago began to preach, the students took the coffin to the grave site and offered a short prayer. They were led by third-year student Benson Ayago. “We’re asking Almighty God to rest the soul of our dear colleague in peace. Comrades power,” Ayago shouted. His colleagues roared back, “Power”! Ayago told reporters they were showing solidarity with Sharon. Read: Sharon died from excessive bleeding, may have been raped – autopsy Earlier, the family, led by Sharon’s mother Melida Auma said they were being threatened. She said unknown people had been patrolling her compound. The family had earlier said they were receiving menacing calls. Auma did not say who was threatening, nor the nature of the threats. “I am firm. I will not act vulnerable. That would give my critics an opportunity to harass my family,” Auma said. She asked family members to support her. Politicians attended. They were led by Homa Bay deputy governor Hamilton Orata, Woman Representative Gladys Wanga, nominated senator Rose Nyamunga, MPs Peter Kaluma (Homa Bay Town), Millie Odhiambo (Suba North), Aduma Owuor (Nyakach) and Paul Abuor (Rongo). Wanga promised to work closely with Sharon’s family to ensure her killers were punished. “We need justice to prevail over Sharon’s murder. We’ll work closely with the family until the case comes to an end,” Wanga said. See: Obado denies killing Sharon, remanded at Industrial Area Orata said Sharon’s death was big loss to the family and the county. “It is wrong to kill someone who was seeking her future through education. The suspects should be dealt with decisively,” Orata said. Millie said murder, especially of a pregnant woman, was against Luo community traditions which respect life. It is unfortunate haron’s murder suspects are Luos,” Millie said. Two of Obado’s personal assistants also have been charged. Nyamunga said no suspect should be spared. “As legislators, we will ensure no stone is left unturned in this matter,” Nyamunga said. Owuor recalled how his parents were murdered in 2014. “My parents were also killed in the same manner Sharon was murdered,” he said. He said there was not goodwill from police to pursue the case at that time. “I thank the Director of Criminal Investigations George Kinoti and the Director of Public Prosecutions Nordin Haji for steps they have made in Sharon’s case,” Owuor said. More: Rising cases of murder blamed on moral decay Click here for
the latest political news