Benson Kipruto clocked 2:07:04 to win the Toronto Waterfront Marathon on Sunday. Another Kenyan Felix Kandie trailed in the third place in 2:08:30, behind Tanzania’s Augustino Sulle, who finished second in 2:07:46. Three pacemakers took the elite group through half way in 1:03:18, almost exactly to what had been discussed during the pre-race technical meeting. The Kenyans Kandie, John Korir, Kipruto together with New Zealand’s Jake Robertson and Tanzania’s Augustino Sulle made up the pack. Missing from the front were two pre-race favourites— the 2012 Olympic champion Stephen Kiprotich and two-time defending champion, Kenya’s Philemon Rono. The Ugandan would later reveal he felt the cold while standing on the start line while Rono suffered a calf cramp. Robertson was dropped at the 35km and so was Kandie. Then, with a look over his shoulder, Kipruto went to work before sealing the race in 2:07:24. Sulle set Tanzanian national record with 2:07:46 in second while Kandie crossed the line in 2:08:30. “I trained very well in Kenya and I was prepared,” Kipruto declared. “I knew it was a very strong field with Rono, Kiprotich and also Robertson in the mix. These are strong gugs and I knew I had a strong field to face.” “I am satisfied with the time because the weather was terrible today. I thought I would win the race at 38km. I am happy I did and from here will focus on t major races.” In the women’s category, Kenya’s Ruth Chebitok finished third after clocking 2:23:29. Bahrain’s Mimi Belete took top honours in 2:22:29 while Ethiopian Marta Megra finished second in 2:22:35. Australia’s two-time Commonwealth Games bronze medallist Jess Trengove ran 2:25:59 for fourth—with all the top four posting personal best times in a surprising turn of events. “I knew I had to push hard in the last few kilometres because I knew the field was very strong,” said Belete, who was all smiles at the finish. Belete, Megra and Chebotek ran together behind a trio of pacemakers through the half in 1:10:35 with the favoured Amane Beriso also in tow. They had targeted the course record of 2:22:43 held jointly by Ethiopia’s Koren Yal and Kenyan Sharon Cherop. But Beriso was the first to drop off the pace as the course turned towards home with eight kilometres remaining. Once the pacemakers had dropped out, Belete pressed on opening a slight gap over Megra and Kenyan Chebotek. Belete, who had suffered hamstring issues during her marathon debut in Hamburg earlier this year, turned up confident in her fitness but was still unsure for her ability at the classic distance. With personal best 1500m/5000m times of 4:00.08/14:54.71, she had made the decision to commit to the marathon only when joining Coach Getaneh Tessema’s training group in Ethiopia.