KenolKobil’s chief executive officer said on Wednesday a 24.9 per cent purchase of its stake by French fuel company Rubis Energie was a “done deal”. David Ohana told a news conference in Nairobi that the two companies would now wait for Kenya’s capital markets regulator to process Rubis’ takeover offer of the remaining shareholdings in the company. Rubis had earlier in a statement announced its intention to acquire KenolKobil Kenya, a move likely to see it delisted from the Nairobi Securities Exchange. Rubis which already owns 25 per cent stake in the listed oil marketer yesterday announced a take-over offer of Sh23 per share for 75.01 per cent of issued ordinary shares of the regional oil company. The announcement saw KenolKobil close as the highest gainer at the Exchange yesterday, with its share going for Sh19.80 up from Sh15.30 the previous day. The proposed offer of Sh23 is therefore 20.9 per cent higher than yesterday’s trading. Rubis said it will finance the takeover valued at $353 million (Sh35.3 billion) through the group’s cash and or from existing credit facilities. Completion of a takeover offer would be subject to the receipt of all regulatory approvals, including national and regional competition authorities and other regulators. Addressing the media on the sidelines of Absa Africa Financial Market Index 2018, NSE chief executive Geoffrey Odundo downplayed investors’ appetite to privatise listed entities, saying Kenya is a liberalised market. He added that investors are free to adopt profitable lawful strategy, adding that NSE and CMA have embarked on a drive to encourage more private firms to join the bourse through attractive products like the Growth Enterprises Market Segment. “I think the company is delisting for positive reasons such as change of strategy, change of business model and capital ownership. The Kenyan market is also very attractive to investors,” Odundo sad. KenolKobil takeover plans come just eight months after an American miller Seaboard Corporation attempted to delist Unga Group Plc via a takeover offer. This however hit a snug after minority shareholders decided to hold onto their shares. Apart from Rubis which together with other shareholders control 51.83 per cent of KenolKobil, other known shareholders are American firm UM Holdings which controls 40.36 per cent stake while Energy Resource Capital has 5.9 per cent stake. The group’s operations span seven countries across Eastern, Central and Southern Africa and encompass the supply, storage, distribution and retail of a wide range of petroleum products Rubis on other hand is a market leader in France, Switzerland, Bermuda, Jamaica, Madagascar, Morocco and Senegal.