Migori senator aspirants have intensified their campaigns, seven days to the October 8 by–election, with the crucial 87,000 Kuria votes being the huge contention. On Saturday, Federal Party of Kenya candidate Eddy Gicheru received a major boost after educationist Solomon Hodo, who was vying on the People’s Democratic Party ticket, backed his candidature. The two campaigned together in various parts of the county, concentrating on the Kuria region. Hodo said he made the move as his hitherto rival was the “right candidate for the seat”. “After lengthy considerations, I have decided to withdraw from the race in favour of this young man [Oketch]. I believe he is the right candidate for this seat and I urge you to vote for him,” said Hodo. Hodo, who is from the Luhya, lived in Kuria West and was the only candidate from the minority Kuria area. Last Saturday, Kuria West MP Mathias Robi and his Kuria East counterpart Marwa Kitayama, both of Jubilee Party, backtracked on the party support of Ochilo Ayacko as a ‘handshake candidate’ to throw their weight behind Oketch. Kuria votes may determine the outcome of the race as ODM is not popular among the two Kuria constituencies. It is, however, more popular in other six constituencies, which are predominately Luo. “Kuria is totally in Jubilee. We cannot vote for ODM. We would rather vote for another party but ODM. As the Kuria, we have decided it is Oketch Eddy,” Robi said during a campaign rally in Kehancha town last week. Ayacko and ODM have resorted to more aggressive grassroot campaigns, banking on community needs for better devolution. The ODM team’s campaign in Kuria is spearheaded by nominated MP Dennitah Ghati, former county executive Maneno Mwikwabe, former MCA Rahab Robi and ODM activist John Magaiwa. Robi said despite Jubilee secretary general Raphael Tuju promising the party won’t field a candidate during Senator Ben Okello’s funeral two months ago, the two legislators’ move was the hand of Deputy President William Ruto. “We know of high-level talks with Ruto on bankrolling the candidate. We are not shocked by the recent development in the area. We will prove we can still get a win for ODM in Kuria,” Robi said. Maneno said poor service delivery by Governor Okoth Obado’s administration has sidelined Kuria in development, which can only be rectified by electing a strong senator. With the fear of Ruto’s hand in the senatorial by-election, ODM bigwigs led by Siaya senator James Orengo and secretary general Edwin Sifuna have campaigned severally for Ayacko. ODM leader Raila Odinga is expected to lead the campaigns on October 4-5. On September 7, Ruto toured Kuria in Migori where a decision to support Oketch. On the same day, Ayacko launched his campaigns in Rongo constituency led by ODM chairman and Suba MP John Mbadi. “We know Ruto plans to use this by-election as an entry point in South Nyanza. We know he wants to use Kuria and rebels in ODM to create havoc. We will take this with the seriousness it deserves,” Mbadi told ODM delegates at Rakwaro Catholic Church in Rongo.