Nyandarua governor Francis Kimemia has invited the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission to audit employees to get rid of ghost workers. Kimemia yesterday said he was concerned that ghost workers were drawing millions in salary from the county coffers. He said they were employed by the previous administration. An audit conducted last year did not resolve the problem because the county was still losing millions to ghost workers, he said. “The audit instead ended up proposing that we employ more workers despite the high wage bill,” Kimemia said. The governor said he was also concerned with the high number of stalled projects. The projects were initiated by predecessor Daniel Waithaka’s administration. “We have genuine contractors seeking their payment and we shall pay them but we also want the EACC to investigate those contractors who were paid yet their projects were not completed,” Kimemia said. Read: Health tops in corruption in county government, EACC reveals He was speaking during a workshop for senior county officers in Naivasha. The two-day workshop was organised by EACC. Kimemia dismissed the EACC rankings that placed the county 16th on the list of regions with he most corruption cases. “There was a survey sponsored by World Bank that placed Nyandarua second in terms of service delivery and we are committed to fighting the vice,” the governor said. Kimemia asked the EACC and the DPP to probe claims that billions of ill-gotten wealth was stashed in offshore accounts. There were claims that as much as Sh14 trillion could be stashed in tax havens. He asked his officers to improve services. “As the top leadership of Nyandarua county, we should make sure that the few resources from the national government reach the common mwananchi through improved services,” he said. EACC manager for Central Rift Charles Rasugu said the health department was the most corrupt in Nyandarua. His claim was based on a recent survey. The report said the number of people who pay bribes to get services rose from 46 per cent to 62.2 per cent in one year. Read:Matiang'i's interior ministry is the most corrupt - EACC Rasugu said complaints included embezzlement, bribery, abuse of office, fraud, irregular recruitment and procurement malpractices. “From 2013 to date, the commission has received over 115 complaints from Nyandarua county. Some of them have been taken up for investigations,” Rasugu said. Click here for the latest political news