The government plans to close special schools and use their resources to support children living with disability in an integrated school environment. Special needs education director Fredrick Haga yesterday said the phaseout will be done in stages. “The system should be changed to suit our children. We should not continue to accept exclusion for children with disabilities during the crucially important life experience of schooling. If necessary changes are made, all students will benefit,” he said. Haga said the current disability support system is underfunded, unfair, fragmented, and inefficient, and gives people with disability little choice and no certainty of access to appropriate support. “When a child goes to a special school, it’s not because the child has an intellectual impairment, but because the community school does not welcome children with an intellectual impairment,” he said. A policy document by the Education ministry dated May 8 says mainstreaming special education will end discrimination, stigma and low self-esteem, and boost confidence. A 2016-17 study by the National Survey on Children with Disabilities and Special Needs in Education showed that 11 per cent of all learners in Kenya have at least one form of disability. Read: Allowance taken off special needs teachers’ pay It said 35 per cent of learners living with disability get their education in special schools, while 65 per cent of learners are in regular schools with designed units and sections to accommodate their disability. According to statistics, learners with visual impairment account for 3.1 per cent, physical disability three per cent, intellectual disability 2.5 per cent, hearing impairment 1.2 per cent, speech and language at 0.9 per cent and deaf/blind at 0.2 per cent. Haga said disabled children in regular classrooms suffer from poor handling by teachers due to inadequate training. According to ministry data, only 2.24 per cent of teachers employed by the TSC have a master’s degree in special needs education (SNE). The proposal to integrate the schools faces a major test, with many sector players citing shortage of teachers trained to take care of learners with disability. Such claims could derail the plan. Kenya Parents Association chairperson Nicholas Maiyo yesterday urged the government to make adequate preparation before eliminating special schools. Also Read: Disability fund increased to Sh300 million, special schools needed Click here for latest political news