Kenya Airways is planning direct flights to Somalia’s capital
Mogadishu; days after regional rival Ethiopian Airline said it will resume flights
to the destination from November 2. Ethiopian
Airlines suspended its operations in Somalia following the outbreak of
hostilities between the two countries in the late 1970s. Speaking to the Star on phone, Kenya Airways chairperson Michael Joseph said
the airline has commenced plans to fly to Mogadishu but declined to give more
information. ‘’Yes, we are
looking at that possibility. Plans are still at infancy stage. It will require a
lot of negotiations and procedures,’’ Joseph said. A source privy to
the talks told the Star that three KQ agents were in Mogadishu assessing
the route and are expected back in Nairobi today. The airline currently serves 54 destinations across the globe, 44 of them in Africa. It is expected to commence direct flights to Gabon's international airport Libreville on October 28. A meeting between President Uhuru Kenyatta
and his former Somalia counterpart Mohamed Abdullahi Mohamed in March last year
saw Kenya end an 11 year flight blackout to and from Mogadishu. Kenya had in 2006 suspended direct flights to Mogadishu
following increased terror threats and attacks by the al-Qaeda linked terror
group the Al-shabaab. Planes from Mogadishu had to pass through Wajir International
Airport for security checks and screening before proceeding to Nairobi. On Tuesday, Kenya Defence Forces marked seven years
since it crossed the border into Southern Somalia in 2011 in pursuit of Al-Shabaab
group, which had allegedly kidnapped foreign tourists and aid workers inside
Kenya. Plans by leading regional airlines to resume operations in Somalia
is a positive indication that the country is getting back to normalcy after
almost four decades of civil and terror war. Ethiopian Airlines said it will start with three flights per
week before adding more. “Our flights will quickly grow to multiple
daily flights given the huge volume of traffic between the two sisterly
countries and the significant traffic between Somalia and the rest of the
world,” Tewolde GebreMariam, Ethiopian Airlines’ chief executive, said in a
statement on Tuesday. Direct flights by KQ to Somalia will perhaps
help Kenya seal widening trade deficit with the war torn country which currently
stands at Sh99.8 billion. According to Kenya National Bureau of
Statistics, Kenya imported goods worth Sh152.7 billion from Somalia last year
against exports of Sh52.8 billion. Some of products Kenya imports from Somalia include
tobacco, pharmaceutical, machinery and electrical products. Khat farmers in Kenya stand to benefit the
most from planned direct flights considering that Somalia is their leading export
market. Even though international airlines are
regaining confidence in Somalia, security expert Andrew Franklin thinks that
flights from Mogadishu may be at risk of surface to air missiles by Al Shaabab
militia. He however adds that if KQ and JKIA have
been cleared for direct flights to US, flights to Somalia should not present
any special problem.