Citizen TV anchor Jacque Maribe and her fiance Joseph 'Jowie' Irungu are in court today for their bail hearing in the case concerning the murder of businesswoman Monica Kimani. The two have pleaded not guilty to Monica's murder but have been in custody since September 25 for Irungu and September 29 for Maribe. The TV star who was arrested on September 29 became a person of interest in the case after her car was allegedly used on the night of Monica's murder. Read: Maribe questioned over Monica Kimani's murder Monica's body with a slit on the throat was found in her apartment in Kilimani on September 21 while she is said to have been killed on the night of September 19. In an affidavit filed in court, the officer investigating the case Maxwell Otieno says Maribe knowingly assisted the main suspect Joseph Irungu in a cover-up. But Maribe has dismissed the claim saying that her only offence is being in a love relationship with a person that the police are interested in over the murder of Monica. She admits to being in a relationship and living in the same house with Jowie, the co-accused and also allowed him to use her car. "Except for these three aspects of association with a person the prosecution is interested in, the prosecution on its face has no witnesses and or forensic material to associate me with the murder directly or indirectly," Maribe says. She adds that is it evident from the affidavits of the DPP and Monica’s family that she was not involved in the murder, was not at the scene of the murder, had no knowledge of the deceased, and had no conscious knowledge of any persons known to the deceased. "No motive exists, and none can be ascribed to me as to the murder," Maribe says. Read: Stranger quizzed me in Gigiri police cell In his affidavit, Irungu says the prosecution has not provided compelling reasons to deny him freedom through bond. “As a sign of goodwill, I am ready and willing to be reporting to my investigating officers ... as the court may direct, to prove my assertion that I am serious to have this case finalised without any issue,” Irungu says. Read: Jacque Maribe, Jowie plead not guilty to Monica Kimani murder He also told the court that he has cooperated with investigators since he was arrested on September 25. Irungu also put forward his wounded shoulder that he allegedly shot himself on as he tried to commit suicide as one of the planks to his request for bail. “I have a wound on my left shoulder that has not been properly attended to by medical doctors and I have only been on painkillers which have not been of any good use to me as I am in constant pain,” Irungu said. He also said the police have failed to aid him to get medical assistance as directed by the court last week. Click here for the latest political news 