The
African Development Bank, in its 2015 report Rail Infrastructure in Africa: Financing Policy Options, says Africa
is experiencing an unprecedented economic recovery, with strong growth
projections over the next three to four decades. According to the report, the
growth is driven by a fast-growing demographic and large-scale urbanisation.
The operation of new mines, gas and oil fields, as well as the increase in
intra-regional and international trade, are additional growth factors. Notably,
the transport sector can accelerate and intensify trade in Africa. Rail
transport, in particular, as a result of its energy efficiency, reduced
greenhouse gas emissions and lower cost per tonne kilometre, is expected to
play an increasingly important role in the conveyance of freight over long
distances. But even
as Africa becomes more and more attractive as a destination for infrastructure
financing in many sectors such as energy, telecoms and transportation,
investment in railways is still small compared to other sectors. This calls for
more institutional reforms and mature financial markets to up-scale the
implementation of new approaches to infrastructure finance commonly found in
developed countries such as project bonds. In Kenya, the standard gauge railway,
a flagship project of Vision 2030, financed by the China Exim Bank, has already
transformed the transport sector by shortening the passenger travel time from
Mombasa to Nairobi, with freight trains completing the journey in less than
eight hours. It is
noteworthy that the China Road and Bridge Corporation, the operator of Madaraka
Express train service, has embarked on a mission to revamp its
image and position itself as the number one public transporter of choice in the
country. Launched in June last year, Madaraka Express Service operates four
daily shuttles, ferrying hundreds of passengers in the inter-county and express
service trains between Nairobi and Mombasa. As of September 30, Madaraka
Express had ferried over 1.89 million passengers in 1,638 trips. And since July
14, SGR has been operating an average of 14 freight trains a day between
Nairobi and Mombasa, with a maximum of 20. 
Each train carries up to 54 vehicles, transporting 108 20-foot
Equivalent Unit (TEU) containers per train in a single direction from Mombasa
to Nairobi. This translates to a total of 756 TEU containers per day. The
latest statistics indicate 160,000 TEU and 1.86 million tonnes of cargo have
been transported. There are five types of cargo transported via the
Nairobi-Mombasa Railway, that is, containers, hazardous articles, coiled steel,
bagged grain and wire rod. There
is no gainsaying that customer service skills are at the core of the success of
any organization. Significantly, train companies have a number of consumer
facing obligations and it is imperative that passengers get the service to
which they are entitled. CRBC, in its quest to enhance service delivery and
improve customer experience on the Madaraka Express, has been sending its
passenger service crew for customer training in China. The training aims at
maximising skills transfer in the organization. Above all, the introduction of
booking tickets through mobile phones has enhanced customer convenience. Whereas
certain concerns have been raised by members of the public regarding the
lopsided composition of workers on the train, as well as longer periods
required to place advance bookings, these are teething problems likely to be
experienced by any service operator venturing into new territory. With time,
these problems are all surmountable. As
the region continues to grapple with transport challenges, the East African
Railway Master Plan, a proposal that provides a guide to the development of the
railways transport sub-sector in the region over the next 25 years, will no
doubt,  present business cases that would
attract private sector investments in the sector. When
all is said and done, the 
renaissance  of  the 
railways  in  Africa 
will  need  to 
be underpinned
by  the 
recognition  that  greater 
funds  are  required to 
bring the infrastructure  up
to  an acceptable level. In addition, a
higher degree of professionalism, regulation and expertise is required within
the industry to ensure that international best practices are upheld.  Zachary Ochieng is a
communications adviser for the China Road and Bridge Corporation  