A court has suspended issuance of title deeds for disputed land in Mbeere South subcounty, Embu. More than 233 residents have staked claims to the parcels in four adjudication sections of Wachoro, Makima, Karaba and Riakanau. On Friday, they obtained an order from the Environment and Land Court in Embu barring issuance of titles. On Wednesday, the residents protested against what they called a plan by Deputy President William Ruto to issue titles for the land. Ruto is to visit Kiritiri town on Monday to open a land registry. On Friday, Justice Y Angima stopped state and county officers or their agents against issuing titles until a case filed in court is concluded. The court warned that anybody who defies the order will be liable for contempt-of-court proceedings and will be punished if convicted. Lawyer Momanyi Gichuki applied for the order on behalf of the residents. The residents, led by Ambrose Kithaka, are interested parties in a case in which Mbeere elders have sued the government demanding that the land and several other parcels be distributed. In an affidavit on behalf of the 233 members, Kithaka has accused the elders and some national and county government officers of sidelining them and unfairly distributing the land and allocating themselves, their friends and relatives large chunks. They want the parcels redistributed, the community fully involved and those they have accused blocked from influencing the division. On Wednesday, they held two separate demonstrations at Gitaraka and Makima markets. They wanted a team appointed to verify the real owners of the parcels. Many parties have staked claims. The residents accused MP Geoffrey Kingangi of organising the DP’s visit and arranging for issuance of title deeds without proper consultations. Kingangi dismissed the allegations, saying the Lands ministry arranged the function. Embu Lands executive Josphat Kithumbu also said his office had no information that titles will be issued. The residents warned that a bloody conflict could erupt if the DP issues titles before the ownership problem is fixed. “Most of the pieces of land are being disputed. Some of the people who claim ownership have resided there for more than 50 years and their children are adults. If they are evicted, it would be a big loss for them,” Sila Mwaniki said. They said parcels in the four areas had been allocated for farming since 1950 and beneficiaries were required to develop them within six month, or they would be reallocated to others. They want the ‘Tuanga Inquiry’ report made public because it “painted the true picture of ownership”. They also proposed that those who will be displaced be allocated land in the Mwea Settlement Scheme. The Mwea scheme is also disputed and lives have been lost after groups clashed.