Machakos residents have raised concern over the protracted war between the governor a section of MCAs that is affecting service delivery. The MCAs and Machakos governor Alfred Mutua have been in loggerhead since the disputed gubernatorial petition. Mutua is still battling the petition at the at the Supreme Court in a bid to overturn the decision by the Court of Appeal that nullified his election. The residents who spoke on various subcounties during a meet the people tour in Machakos accused the MCAs of sabotage. “We are disappointed with majority of MCA's because they have abandoned us to pursue partisan and selfish politics. All we want is them to concentrate with their main responsibility for which they were elected,” Patrick Mutunga a resident. For the past two weeks, Dr Mutua has been criss-crossing the county meeting residents while inspecting various development projects. The residents said the leaders were the greatest impediment to delivery of essential government services to the people. At Kathiani market a resident Mary Nzioka blamed the slowed development rate across Machakos County on the constant wrangles between MCAs and the governor. “They (MCA's) have forgotten their work is to legislate and represent people in their respective wards. They must recognize that the Governor is an elected leader and stop being used by other individuals who have political vendetta with the governor,” she said. Read: Machakos MCAs vote to declare Alfred Mutua's seat vacant Similar sentiments were echoed by a university student from Kangundo who blamed MCAs for engaging in political turf wars at the expense of development. “It is unfortunate that what we see most in our MCA's is constant fights and contests over any development program initiated or proposed by the executive. They have become rebels for the sake of it, which is causing a lot of disservice to the people,”he added. Governor Mutua on his defense however vowed that he will not be slowed down by MCAs who are fight to frustrate his development agenda and has declared he will use all means possible to ensure residents access development. “I am ready to work with all elected and nominated leaders but will not wait and watch my people suffer because of few leaders who do not care about them,” Mutua said. Governor Mutua has vowed he will not be slowed down by MCAs who are fight to frustrate his development agenda and has declared he will use all means possible to ensure residents access development. “I am ready to work with all elected and nominated leaders but will not wait and watch my people suffer because of few leaders who do not care about them,” Mutua said. Also Read: Alfred Mutua accuses MCAs of blackmailing him to approve 'looting' Mutua at the same time urged youth, women and persons with disabilities to apply for roads tenders. “In the adverts, there are works set aside specifically for persons with disabilities, women and youth. I encourage them to apply so as to participate in our development,” Mutua said. “In the adverts, there are works set aside specifically for persons with disabilities, women and youth. I encourage them to apply so as to participate in our development,” Mutua said. Click here for the latest political news 