Meru governor Kiraitu Murungi has distanced himself from Agriculture CS Mwangi Kiunjuri remarks that they agreed to allocate part of Sh2.2 billion miraa funds to macadamia and avocado seedlings. He said last Friday he distributed 200,000 macadamia and 200,000 avocado seedlings to farmers because they have ready market in China and Europe. “I have not received or spent a coin from the national government miraa fund. We have met with CS Kiunjuri several times but we never agreed that I would use any shilling from the miraa money,” Kiraitu said. He said he aims to distribute one million avocado and macadamia seedlings for each crop. The aim is diversification. “The whole budget for the project is Sh90 million. No one is coerced to plant,” Kiraitu said. He said if the national government wants to promote avocado and macadamia farming using their miraa funds, it will do so as the national government, not the county government. Kiraitu asked Meru MPs to summon Kiunjuri in Parliament to explain where the miraa money is. “I never told anyone to uproot miraa to plant macadamia or avocado. I have only urged farmers to practice intercropping,” the governor said. Kiunjuri had said the ministry and Kiraitu’s administration were in agreement the miraa funds would go towards buying macadamia and avocado seedlings to help farmers diversify crops. “I have the miraa money and we have agreed with the Meru governor to allocate the biggest share of the funds in provision of avocado and macadamia seedlings this rainy season,” the CS had said at Gitoro ASK Showground during the Meru Dairy Union Farmer’s field day. The announcement led to public outrage, splitting of MCAs and condemnation by MPs. Three Meru MPs demanded clarity from Kiraitu and Kiunjuri. Tigania East MP Gichunge Kabeabea, his Igembe North counterpart Maoka Maore and East Africa Assembly MP Mpuru Aburi said there will be negative consequences if the money is diverted to other uses. Maore said the miraa money was set aside to improve the crop, provide water, build sheds, seek markets and carry out research “The truth of the matter is the Meru government has its own agriculture budget. Let the county use it for purchasing avocado and macadamia, not miraa funds,” Maore said. Kabeabea said the funds should be used to develop new miraa markets.Aburi said Sh1 billion for miraa was factored into the 2016-17 budget and an additional Sh1.2 billion later to cushion miraa farmers from effects of the European markets ban.