Kenya’s Jackson Muema struck gold in the 4km cross country race at the 2018 Youth Olympic games in Buenos Aires , Argentina on Monday. This was the first time cross country was returning to the Olympics Arena after a 94-year hiatus. And it was worth the wait, as Muema out-duelled Ethiopia’s Berihu Aregawi in the boys’ race, while in the girls’ event, Uganda’s Sarah Chelangat reeled early-spurting Edinah Jebitok of Kenya to break the tape. The morning 4km races represented the second stage of the 1500m, 3000m and 2000m steeplechase, with combined rankings determining the individual medallists. Muema’s one-second stage win over Aregawi was crucial. Uganda’s Oscar Chelimo came home third, reversing the top three from the track 3000m last week. It left the three athletes tied on four points, meaning the cross country results decided the medals. And so it was that Kenyan Muema, who clinched the gold ahead of Ethiopia’s Aregawi, while Chelimo took bronze. It was the same story in deciding the men’s 1500m medallists, as once again the top three were reversed to leave a three-way, four-point tie. But the gold went to Burundi’s Jean de Dieu Butoyi, the first home of the metric milers to move up from third after last week’s track race. Morocco’s Anass Essayi retained his silver medal position, while Ethiopia’s Melese Nberet ended with the bronze after a gallant seventh-place overall finish. As for Chelangat, the win confirmed the Ugandan as the gold medallist for the women’s 3000m, the first stage of which she had won on the track last Thursday. There was no movement in the medal places behind her, either, as Kenya’s Mercy Chepkorir came home fourth overall and second of the 3000m runners for silver, while Ethiopia’s Aberash Minsewo crossed sixth, third in her discipline, to wrap up bronze. While Jebitok couldn’t hold on for the cross country win, her bold running was rewarded with that second-place finish, and meant the Kenyan clinched the 1500m gold after running fastest on the track last Friday. Australia’s Jaylah Hancock-Cameron, second on the track, was the fourth home of the athletes in her event. It meant she retained her silver medal position by a single point ahead of Lemlem Hailu, who tied on points with Japan’s Yuki Kanemitsu, but clinched bronze, thanks to finishing second of the 1500m runners. There was no change in the top three in the women’s steeplechase standings, as Fancy Cherono of Kenya came through third overall for her second stage win to secure the gold. Ethiopia’s Mekides Abebe was 11th overall, third of the steeplechasers, to get silver; Sri Lanka’s Parami Wasanthi Maristela’s carried her bronze medal position through to the finish, placing fourth in her event and 17th overall on the turf. Abrham Sime also claimed his second stage win, coming home ninth overall, to clinch the men’s steeplechase gold for Ethiopia. The medal excitement in that event took place mid-pack, as France’s Baptiste Guyon toiled fruitfully, finishing 11th overall to come home as the second placed steeplechaser, enough to move from sixth to earn silver. Fifth place track man Abel Yamane of Eritrea was the third steeplechaser through, meaning he took bronze. Click here for the latest political news