Energy distributor Kenya power is losing at least 20 per cent of every 100 units it purchased from power generators,the energy regulator has said. Speaking during an ongoing crackdown on fuel adulteration in Bahati,Nairobi ,Energy Regulatory Commission director general Pavel Oimeke said part of these units are used to power fuel adulteration activities. They are lost through illegal power connections from licensed facilities to the adulteration dens. With the cost of every kilowatt of hydro and geothermal power capped at an average of Sh5 and Sh8 per unit respectively, it means that the Power distributor loses an estimated Sh10.38 billion annually the illegal power connection. This is based on the total energy sold by KenGen as reported in its financial results ending June 2018 which stood at 7,989 gigawatts. “Illegal connections create high system loses where all citizens have to pay for all units that have been lost,” Oimeke said. According to Kenya Power acting customer service general manager Aggrey Machasio, they will levy appropriate charges for unmetered power used in adulteration dens. KenGen accounts for 69 per cent of the total installed capacity while independent power producers account for only 31 per cent of the 2,359 megawatts. During the crackdown, ERC nabbed at least 1,000 litres of adulterated fuel and arrested four people, and three trucks in relation to the illegal exercise. The five were arraigned at Makadara court yesterday. Oimeke said they are banking on the approval of the Transport and Petroleum products and LPG Act by the Ministry of Mining to give them more powers over such trucks. “The act will enable the commission to access written tracking data of trucks used to transport the fuel products to help monitors their movements.” Besides, he announced that culprits released by courts on fines will not be allowed to go back to drive the trucks or operate illegal petroleum stations again as their license will permanently be cancelled. CID officer John Gachomo who coordinated the operation told the Star that the dens deny government billion of shilling in revenue and make people carrying out legal activities to be overtaxed. According to the Petroleum Institute of East Africa, upto 75 per cent of the 33 million litres of kerosene reported to be consumed monthly is used to contaminate diesel and petrol. This, as reported by the institute has caused Kenya Revenue Authority to lose Sh34 billion from tax evasion on a monthly basis posing a massive economic threat. Click here for the latest political news