Haniya Sagar, widow of murdered Islamic preacher About Rogo, has been freed by the High Court in Mombasa. Sagar’s 10-year sentence was quashed on Friday by Mombasa judge Dora Chepkwony after she appealed. She termed it unlawful and unfair. The judge said evidence was weak and far-fetched. Sagar was charged in 2016 alongside three others. The offences included conspiracy to carry out a terror attack at the Central police station on September 11, 2016.There was a struggle and shoot-out. Sagar had been charged alongside Luul Ali, Nasteho Ali and Zamzam Abdi who were, however, acquitted for lack of evidence. She was alleged to have conspired with her co-accused and three terror suspects killed by police during the attack. The slain suspected terrorists were Tasnim Farah, Ramla Hussein and Maimuna Abdirahman. Judge Chepkwony said the trial magistrate erred in convicting Sagar on circumstantial evidence. She said the evidence did not meet the legal threshold and did not warrant conviction.“The circumstantial evidence was weak and could not warrant conviction. I therefore set aside her sentence,” Chepkwony said. She said all the evidence had loopholes, which the trial magistrate ought to have looked into. Read: Rogo's wife walks free after High court overturns her 10-year sentence Chepkwony said there was no link between Sagar and alleged slain terrorist Tasnim, and there was no evidence they had planned the attack. She said the trial magistrate erred in ruling that Sagar had been in constant communication with Tasnim and she had prior knowledge of the attack but failed to inform the police. Chepkwony said there were no telephone transcripts from service providers showing that Sagar was in communication with Tasnim. However, the magistrate went ahead to convict on the basis of verbal testimony by the witnesses. She said the magistrate’s ruling that Sagar had prior knowledge of the attack three months in advance was far-fetched and without basis. Chepkwony said Sagar ought to have been acquitted along with the three other accused persons. Radical Muslim cleric Aboud Rogo Mohamed was killed in a drive-by shooting in Mombasa in August 2012. Sagar was wounded. He was one of a number of radical clerics murdered in the war on terror. Also See: Now widow of slain preacher Rogo sentenced to 10 years Click here for the latest political news