Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria has told off Opposition leader Raila Odinga over the Constitution change debate saying he should be the last person to comment on the issue. Kuria said leaders who opposed the Constitution ahead of the 2010 referendum noticed shortcomings in the law but Raila gave the document a clean bill of health. “You told us you had read it. I don’t know if you read it in reverse or the opposite way,” Kuria said. He spoke on Saturday during the official opening of the Kinangop Technical and Vocational College by DP William Ruto. “And by the way my friend, we are not an electric switch where if today you say [the Constitution] is good, it’s good, when you say it’s bad it’s bad. Are we fools,” Kuria posed. Raila has been vocal about the need to amend the Constitution saying it will fix perennial problems that have been facing the country. Read: Referendum unstoppable, tied to handshake - Raila More: Politicians split on Raila’s call for referendum The former Prime Minister has also claimed the implementation of some of the resolutions agreed on in the handshake will require changes to the supreme law. The opposition chief said everyone must be bold enough to pick up the challenge of changing the Constitution as a matter of duty to the nation. Among his key proposals is the expansion of the executive “to accommodate everyone” through the formation of a three tier government. This also includes the establishment of 14 regional or provincial blocks as units of disbursement of resources from the National government to strengthen devolution. Raila’s stand has, however, raised suspicions within Jubilee and renewed political contests over the constitutional debate. His critics see his move as an ingenious way of wanting to create more posts for himself and his allies. Deputy President William Ruto and his lieutenants have publicly opposed attempts to amend the Constitution saying Raila is looking for shortcuts to power. Kuria said he was the first to propose constitutional amendments back in 2015 under the “Punguza Mzigo” tag before Raila hijacked it. The MP said he still supports the idea but only for purposes of cutting the wage bill and not for creating new government positions. “Now is when he [Raila] is seeing what I already saw. But some want us to change the Constitution to create positions so that when we vote, there won’t be chaos. It’s not a must to change the Constitution for peace to prevail during elections,” Kuria said. Read: Moses Kuria backs Raila's call for referendum, wants it in 2022 He took a jab at Raila over his rigging claims after every election saying the mindsets of individuals who feel elections can only be fair and peaceful if they win is what needs to be changed. “Recently in Migori, there was a senatorial by-election. My friend Ochillo Ayacko won. Did you hear anyone say IEBC is bad?” Kuria posed. Ochillo vied on Raila's ODM party ticket beating his closest rival by over 20,000 votes. “But when others lose, the world comes to a standstill,” Kuria said. Secrecy continues to surround the details of the March 9 unity deal between Raila and President Uhuru Kenyatta, although key Jubilee politicians are jittery that the two leaders may have agreed on several reforms ahead of the 2022 General Election. Ruto and his allies recently softened their hardliner stance over constitutional change but insisted that it should only be for purposes of easing the burden on Kenyans. They vowed to oppose any reforms aimed at destabilizing Jubilee’s succession agenda. “We do not have a problem with the referendum but we have issues with fraud and pretence. If you tell us that this was agreed during the handshake, that is a lie,” Ruto said on October 6 in Tharaka Nithi. The DP said those agitating for constitutional change to ease the burden on Kenyans and those pushing for more seats should agree on what they want and be ready to accept the results of the poll. Read: Don't support referendum to create more positions - Ruto See also: Uhuru plays down calls for referendum Click here for the latest political news