Maria Brunhelner is the sports personality for the belated month of July 2018. The German-based swimmer was in superb form at the Africa Youth Games in Algiers winning three medals— two gold in the 50 and 100 metres freestyle events and a silver in the 50m breaststroke. She set a championship record of 26.14 seconds in the 50m freestyle and repeated her feat in the 100m, where she posted 58.87 seconds. In the 50m breaststroke event, she clocked 34.04 seconds, losing out narrowly to Morocco’s Imane Houda El Barodi, who tapped the wall in 33.03. Brunhelner exploits saw her get called up to the Kenya Olympic Youth Games team in Buenos Aires Argentina and also earned selection to the CANA Zone Three Championships slated for Khartoum Sudan in November. Brunlehner was awarded with a 43 inch StarTimes Digital TV Set, Sh100,000 in prize money, and a customised trophy. Brunhelner edged out World U20 champions Rhonex Kipruto and Celliphine Chespol in the vote for the coveted award. Kipruto bagged gold in the 10,000m while Chespol took gold in the 3000m steeplechase at the World Under 20 Championship in Finland. The other nominee in July was Emmanuel Korir, who clocked the fastest time in the two lap race this year when he registered 1:42.05 at the London Diamond League meeting. The 18-year-old, whose award was collected by her mother at the Mombasa Academy, was humbled with the award adding that it will motivate her to continue winning. “I did not see this coming. I am excited because you guys have made my day. I am hoping to come to Kenya next year for the nationals and I have my eyes set on the 2020 Olympics in Tokyo,” Maria said through a Skype interview from her base in Germany. “Swimming is fun but it requires a lot of dedication but I thank my sister for always inspiring me.” StarTimes marketing & PR director, Japhet Akhukia” “In the fifteen StarTimes sports personality awards that we have handed over since we established this initiative with SJAK, it is the very first time that we are awarding a swimmer which is testament to our diversity in appreciating our sportsmen and women as we seek to reward excellence across the diverse sports disciplines,”