Nominated MP David ole Sankok has been sued by his driver for illegally terminating his services without pay. Through lawyer Vincent Lempaa, Raphael Kapaya claims Sankok fired him without any justifiable reasons. He says his rights to a fair hearing and a fair administrative action were violated. Lempaa says Kapaya was employed by Sankok on a five-year contract as his driver on October 1, 2017, in an employment letter dated September 4, 2017. On the same dates, he submitted personal bank details to the clerk of the National Assembly for electronic funds transfer purposes. On October 1 this year, the legislator signed a pay change advice to him, which was backdated to July 31 this year. In documents filed in court, he says Kapaya has diligently and religiously executed his duties in line with terms of the contract of employment. “On September 15, 2018 at 5am, Kapaya was summoned by Sankok through phone call and instructed and/or coerced to resign as the driver attached to him,” the documents indicate. Lempaa says the claimant has neither received a letter of termination nor reasons for the withdrawal of his services and the consequential benefits contrary to Clause 5 of the contract. Read: MP Sankok wants NTSA officials to resign for failing to stop road carnage Efforts to contact Sankok for dispute settlement in the form of arbitration have been unsuccessful. The MP further wrote to the bank instructing it that he had terminated Kapaya’s services, a letter he has declined to serve him. “As a result of his action, the claimant has suffered psychological pain, trauma and financial distress as he has a family to provide for and failure to give a three months’ notice of termination, Sankok violated rules of natural justice and violation of his rights to fair labour practices as protected in the Constitution,” Lempaa says. The documents say the MP has terminated his contract so he can “practice nepotism” in his office as he has employed his wife as a personal assistant, his girlfriend as his personal aide and his brother-in-law as his secretary. Kapaya wants the matter certified urgent and the court to compel Sankok and the Parliamentary Service Commission to provide half of his salary. He also wants to be furnished with information as contained in the demand letter dated October 1 this year. Click here for latest political news