Borrowers are expected to pay higher interests as banks effect the 20 per cent excise duty on transactions in line with the Finance Act 2018. Speaking during a Kenya Association of Manufacturers forum on Finance Act 2018 yesterday, Ernst and Young associate director John Gakima asked borrowers to brace themselves for higher total cost of credit as banks increase hidden fees. “The increase in bank transaction charges will hurt borrowers the most, as hidden fees wrapped in loan products are bound to rise in the new finance law,’’ said Gakima. Although Central Bank’s monetary policy Committee last week retained base lending rate at nine per cent, forcing banks to lend at a maximum of 13 per cent in line with law capping rates, other loan fees charged by banks push the total cost of credit above this limit. Last week, lenders Diamond Trust Bank, Sidian and KCB notified customers of the decision to increase charges on all transactions. “In line with the Finance Act 2018, the bank has increased excise duty from 10 per cent to 20 per cent on all bank fees and commissions with effect from September 25, 2018,” Sidian Bank said in a notice to its customers. A spot check of the total cost of credit on Kenya Bankers Association’s portal shows that banks are an average of 19 per cent of Annual Percentage Rate (APR) on personal unsecured loans, with Equity Bank charging a high of 21.3 per cent. This means that a borrower has to part with at least 95,000 in interests on a loan of Sh500, 000. This includes other fees a part from interest rate of at least six per cent or Sh30,000. The increase in bank transaction charges is likely to further raise other costs, including legal, insurance, disbursement and appraisal fees. A Cytonn report dubbed The Total Cost of Credit Post Rate Cap released in January shows that despite capping interest rates at four per cent above CBR, banks are charging between 14 to 22 per cent in total interest rates. Guaranty Trust Bank and CBA were listed as cheapest for unsecured personal loans, charging 14 and 15.3 per cent in APR. Equity Bank and Prime Bank were listed as most expensive, charging 20.6 and 19.2 per cent respectively. Victoria Commercial Bank and Middle East Bank were named cheapest in mortgage interests, charging APR of 18.2 per cent. Equity Bank and Barclays Bank Kenya were listed as most expensive at 21.3 and 20 per cent respectively. The 20 per cent excise tax is also applicable including bank transfers — both local and international — over-the-counter withdrawals as well as ATM and account fees. Transferring money from KCB account to M-Pesa is now Sh63 up from Sh58 before Finance Act 2018. Other Bank services that attract fees and charges include obtaining account statements and ATM and cheque clearance.