Post-primary school teachers on Saturday reiterated
their stand that they will not step into the classroom in January should the
government fail to address their medical cover scheme plight. The over 70,000 members of Kuppet are under
Minet Insurance Brokers medical cover but they have been complaining of poor and
limited services. Kuppet members in Mombasa on Saturday accused
the Teachers Service Commission of imposing the scheme on them without
consulting them. “It is a pity that in this era we have an employer
who imposes on us a very poor medical scheme,” said Kuppet Mombasa executive
secretary Lynnette Kamadi. The Kuppet members signed a petition seeking
to force the TSC to termination of the contract with Minet Insurance Brokers in
front of Kuppet secretary general Akelo Misori. Misori said their main issue is having quality
services. “Our interest is not to be out of Minet. Our
purpose is basically to ask for quality service,” said Misori. They spoke at the Star of the Sea secondary
school where the Kuppet Mombasa branch held its annual general meeting. “Teachers, wherever we go, are giving evidence
that there is no good service,” Misori said. He said the bureaucratic manner in which
teachers’ medical cover is handled is the one that causes all the anxiety among
the teachers. The TSC entered into agreement with Minet
Insurance Brokers in 2015 to underwrite health insurance for all teachers under
the commission's employment. The insurance is worth about Sh5.2 billion
annually. “The service provider apparently has got a
high turnover of personnel. So they do not have the capacity to dissect the
problems and challenges that the service has faced,” said Misori. He said the feedback has been given to both
the commission and the service providers but nothing has changed. TSC and Minet Insurance Brokers renewed their
contract this month, much to the chagrin of the teachers. Kamadi said this is unfortunate. “Time and again we have expressed our disappointment
with the outpatient services and the quality of services offered by Bliss under
Minet,” she noted. Kamadi said the cover is keen on ‘treating
symptoms of diseases rather than the causes’. Mombasa county quality assurance director
Moses Bosire, who was the NHIF cover is ’10 times better’ than the Minet cover. “If you have an insurance that cannot treat
fibroid in women, is that even an insurance?” posed Bosire. He however said the medical cover issues with
the teachers should not give them a license to deliver poor services to school
children. “When I get a case, I will not think about
your medical cover. I just want quality services,” said Bosire.