Some 500 maize farmers have confirmed receiving Sh1.4 billion from the government. The payment comes as farmers planned to stage protests in Eldoret town on Monday over Sh3.5 billion outstanding payments. They have now cancelled the demos. They want the government to clear the remaining Sh2.1 billion owed to another 900 farmers. The cash is for the produce supplied to the National Cereals and Produce Board nine months ago. The board has been mired in claims of corruption and some of its top officers have been charged with making fraudulent payments. “Most of the farmers have confirmed receiving the payments. That’s a positive move, hence, the need to give the government more time to ensure all farmers are paid,” Kenya Farmers’ Association director Kipkorir Menjo said yesterday. On Thursday, President Uhuru Kenyatta warned the NCPB against misusing funds meant for farmers. “The money meant to pay maize farmers was in the budget last year, and we know it is the people at the NCPB who — instead of paying farmers that toiled — paid a few wealthy individuals and traders,” he said. Menjo said many growers had been demoralised by the delays and the government must move swiftly to clear the payments so there is no drastic decline in maize production. The famers have also urged the government to ban maize imports to protect domestic production. They also criticised the government for spending billions of shillings on the Galana-Kulalu irrigation project, instead of investing the money to support institutions such as the Agricultural Development Corporation, the Kenya Seed Company and the Agricultural Finance Corporation. “We should have proper allocation of funds to the sector and pre-planning to avoid the situation we’ve had this year. It should not be allowed to happen again,” representative Christopher Kolum said. David Amdany said the government must plan properly ahead of the new harvests so they do not suffer. The North Rift counties have been exploring alternative markets to stop overreliance on the NCPB. They also sought to add value to their maize to boost incomes and ensure farmers do not suffer. They have also been contemplating diversifying crops. “Farmers have been making huge losses because of relying on maize growing. We will look into how to improve our products. Farmers must also consider growing other crops, which can earn them more money,” Uasin Gishu governor Jackson Mandago said.