It was a normal Saturday for Makindu Hope Academy in Makueni where unexpected visitors showed up at lunchtime. Four members of the Vohra family, co-owners of Sarova Hotels, drove in for a surprise lunch. The family was later involved in a road crash on their way back to Nairobi. Their vehicle veered off the road, hit a culvert and landed in a ditch. Mohinder Vohra, his wife, a daughter and a daughter-in-law died. His son Saveer, who was driving, was injured. During the visit, Vohra promised to sponsor six children who perform well in the KCPE exam. He was also sponsoring other students from the area, residents said. Yesterday, academy director Patricia Kanini, who was not in the school at the time, said she received a call from one teacher enquiring if they expected visitors. She said the visit was impromptu but she was not surprised because they usually receive visitors during celebrations at the Sikh gurdwara, or Sikh temple, in Makindu. Read: Road accident claims Sarova Hotels family members “My school is frequently visited by well-wishers as we have orphans. I didn’t see them and can’t tell how many they were,” she said. Kanini said the family provided lunch to their pupils. They ate boiled rice with ndegu, and were given snacks, including biscuits and soda. Photos of the family serving the children went viral soon after they died. Makindu gurdwara’s Chuckjit Jabbssi said the family was at the temple to pray and remember another son, Jaideep, who died last year. Jaideep was a racing enthusiast. He died after his car rolled near Amboseli Lodge. He was en route to the East African Safari Classic Rally in November. The family was at the temple for a three-day Sikh tradition. “We read our Holy Book for three days continuously and pray for the departed,” Jabbssi said. He eulogised Vohra as an honest man. Vohra was a former chairman of the temple. Despite relinquishing the post four years ago, he was still involved in its activities. Jabbssi said he “hated lies and helped only sincere people. His passion and love for the Makindu people saw him employ youths in his company,” he said. Gurdwara manager Amardin Sign said the family had been jovial as they left for Nairobi. He said Vohra was mindful of the well-being of the poor. The bodies are in MP Shah Hospital mortuary. They will be cremated tomorrow. Read: Sarova Hotels proprietor, kins in car crash to be cremated on Thursday Click here for latest political news