The High Court was yesterday shown video evidence of how a radio phone belonging to the key suspect in human rights lawyer Willie Kimani’s murder moved on the specific date. For the third consecutive day, Kennedy Mwadime continued with his testimony that seeks to link the murder suspects to the killing of Kimani, his client Josephat Mwenda and taxi driver Joseph Muiruri. The radio phone under scrutiny is believed to have been with Fredrick Leliman who is charged alongside Leonard Maina, Stephen Chebulet, Sylvia Wanjiku and police informer Peter Ngugi. Also read: Three officers, strange cars spotted in field where Willie Kimani may have been killed Mwadime further explained to the court how police radios are tracked at the Integrated Command Centre. The witness told trial judge Jessie Lesiit he was tasked to retrieve movement data of all radios used within Mlolongo and Athi River area. According to him, nine radios had been assigned, apart from one radio which had been installed in a vehicle, the others were used as hand phones. “We did a quick preview to confirm whether they were acting on the network within the specific dates and times,” the witness said. The court also heard that it is after a further preview they confirmed the radio had a lot of movements. Read: Witness in Willie Kimani murder case describes lawyer's struggle for help Mwadime said the investigations showed the radio was at Syokimau Police Post on June 23, between 12.20 min and 12.40pm. This is the same time prosecution believe Willie Kimani, his client Mwenda and driver were abducted and later killed. The radio’ s frequency was also captured within Mlolongo police station between 3.20pm and 3.40 and it was later at Syokimau police station between 6.40pm and 7pm. The expert also established that the same radio was at an isolated field within Soweto area between 7.40pm and 8pm the same day. Mwadime said that the investigating officer wanted to find out if there was any radio that registered activity within Mavoko law court, particularly at 12pm. He said that the same gadget was later traced along Eastern bypass and minutes later on Thika Superhighway at 12.40pm. The prosecution believes the three men were abducted, held for hours at Syokimau police post and later killed at an open field within Mlolongo. Their bodies were later found at Oldonyo Sabuk River stashed in gunny bags. More on this: Tears flow as family of slain lawyer Willie Kimani testifies Click here for the latest political news  