Two youths will be rewarded with an opportunity to be on the Kenya's maiden direct flight to the USA on October 28. State House spokesperson Kanze Dena said the two will be chosen from among those that have excelled in different fields. "They will be counted among prominent Kenyans who will make the maiden flight," she said in a press conference on Saturday. President Uhuru Kenyatta will be at the Jomo Kenyatta International Airport (JKIA) to witness the official launch of the direct flights to New York. He will not travel to the US on the said date. Kanze said that the day is awaited by tourists, business leaders, investors, and all Kenyans in general. Read: US gives Kenya Airways permit for direct flights Related: US in 15 hours: KQ's maiden New York flight to cost Sh89,000 She further lauded the preparations for next Saturday's Mashujaa Day celebrations in Kakamega. The State House spokesperson called on the public to come out in large numbers to celebrate the country's heroes. Kanze said she toured Bukhungu stadium, the event's venue, and was satisfied that all is set for the celebration. She said State guests for the ceremony will be revealed in due course. Uhuru had earlier met Western leaders at State House for talks on matters affecting the region. Key issues of concern at the said meeting were on how to revamp agriculture, specifically the sugar sector. Kanze said at the Kakamega State LodLo briefing that the President is keen on sorting the matters affecting the Western region. Uhuru had cited wastage of resources as a major challenge to the country's development. The president will grace the Mashujaa Day fete in Kakamega. He made the promise of 'devolving the celebrations' in June while leading Kenyans in marking Madaraka Day in Meru county. “President Uhuru Kenyatta seeks to have all the national days celebrated in different counties as he wants every Kenyans to have the opportunity of witnessing the events in person instead of watching them on television sets,” Kanze added. Read: [VIDEO] Kalonzo, Wetangula meet Uhuru at State House Senate Speaker Kenneth Lusaka and Devolution Cabinet Secretary Eugene Wamalwa led the delegation to State House in Nairobi. Governors Wycliffe Oparanya (Kakamega), Sospeter Ojaamong (Busia), Patrick Khaemba (Trans Nzoia), Wilberforce Otichilo (Vihiga) and Wycliffe Wangamati (Bungoma) were present. Senators Moses Wetang’ula, (Bungoma), Amos Wako (Busia), Cleophas Malala (Kakamega), George Khaniri (Vihiga) and Michael Mbito (Trans Nzoia) as well as MPs from the five counties, former Vice President Moody Awori and former Cabinet minister Cyrus Jirongo  were also at the meeting. This story has been updated.  Click here for the latest political news