The courts have been urged to explore ways to reduce the number of remandees to reduce prison crowding. Former Nakuru woman rep Mary Mbugua and officer in charge of Nyahururu main prison Peter Kupende said the large number of remandees is overstretching facilities. The two spoke at the Nyahururu main prison where Mbugua led PCEA Church on a visit. They donated soap, toothpaste and toothbrushes, among other items. Nyahururu main prison is the twentieth correctional facility Mbugua was visiting. She has visited other prisons including Kisii, Kiambu, King’ong’o, Imenti and Ruiru. Mbugua said some inmates have been in remand for 20 years and this has subjected them to stress and depression. "The judges and magistrates should find ways to remedy the situation. We urge alternative dispute resolution, involving  Nyumba Kumi and elders, to avoid many people going to jail," she said. Kupende said organised crime, family disputes and alcohol and drug abuse are the main offences that send people to jail. He said many are unable to raise bail and bond. Kupende urged Chief Justice David Maraga to follow up on his promise during his visit to Ol Kalou last Friday on seeking ways to decongest prisons. The main challenge, he said, is that many prisoners are abandoned and forgotten by their families. The officer urged the church and other well-wishers to visit prisons and offer the inmates support. Kupende said such support will go a long way in easing the burden of expenses on the government. PCEA Church Ndaragwa Moderator Patrick Kimathi urged churches to unite in the initiative. Last month, Maraga said the government has embarked on building courts within or next to prison premises to eliminate delays in arraignments. At least eight courts will be built near prisons, Maraga said. He said having the courts near prisons will ease the work of the Judiciary. "We often experience delays in hearings when prison authorities are unable to bring the accused to court on time," Maraga said. The courts will mainly deal with transnational and organised crime, which require special arrangements for hearings, including extra security. Commissioner of prisons Isaiah Osugo said the prison system is badly overcrowded. The prisons are only built to accommodate 27,000 inmates. "Today, we have 53,000 inmates countrywide. About 21,000 are in remand and 30,000 have been convicted," Osugo said. Interior CS Fred Matiangi said the government would work with the Judiciary on reforms. Click here for the latest political news