With the current cloud of uncertainty hanging over the IEBC, ODM
Homa Bay MP Peter Kaluma recently proposed its overhaul, especially how its
commissioners are selected. His ‘solution’ to the threat to its independence is to revert to the
‘IPPG model’, with commissioners nominated by the main opposing political
parties, based on their representation in Parliament (along with one member – a
lawyer – selected by the LSK). One problem here is the considerable fluidity in the number/strength
of Kenya’s political parties from one election to the next (a reality that has
also generated controversy in terms of the allocation of state funding through
the Political Parties Act). But Kaluma’s main argument in support of this appointment model is
that the two subsequent elections were largely free of ‘rigging’ and other
forms of electoral malpractice.  In other
words, having representatives of the main competing political forces running
the Commission would guarantee ‘accountability from within’.  But even looking at the 1997 election, what
do we see? According to Kenyan political historian/election expert Charles
Hornsby (in his “Election Day and the Results’, published in the most authoritative
account of that election: Out for the
Count): “There were 13 closely fought parliamentary constituencies where
the number of parliamentary ballots were either far too many or too few
compared to the presidential ballots, and/or the number of missing, lost,
disallowed or miscounted ballots were greater than the majority of the winning candidate…
The 1997 elections were far freer than those in 1992…Nonetheless, KANU still
cheated, bribed, intimidated and finally rigged its way into an overall
majority of the House by manipulation of a few key results.” For his part, the Political Counselor with the Royal Netherlands
Embassy and himself a member of the DDDG (Donors’ Democracy Development Group),
Norbert Braakhuis, offered this assessment in the same book (‘International
Election Observation During the 1997 Kenya Elections’): “The internal (DDDG) report
stated that three constituencies (Westlands, Kitui West and Changamwe) had been
incorrectly attributed to KANU; if corrected, the 107-193 KANU majority would
have turned [in] to a 104-106 minority…[but a] number of DDDG members preferred
not to go public with the main report in order not to prejudice, as a
consequence of the sub judice rule, election petitions that might be brought to
court by losing candidates.   After some
debate, this position was accepted by the DDDG as a whole.  A subsequent legal opinion showed, however,
that the sub judice rule did not apply here. 
After some debate, the DDDG still decided not to go public but to engage
in a confidential dialogue with the Kenyan electoral authorities.” (Also relevant here Hornsby’s reminder that
although 26 petitions were brought against Kanu parliamentary ‘winners’ in that
election, none were successful.) Serious irregularities were documented in another five
constituencies, all included in the DDDG’s report handed to the ECK. Regarding the presidential contest, since Mwai Kibaki’s election
petition was dismissed — following the failure of his lawyers to serve it ‘personally’
on President Moi — there is perhaps less certainty of outright fraud.  Still, the massive vote-buying by Kanu in key
areas and the pre- and post- election attacks on the Opposition (eg on SDP
candidate Charity Ngilu near Kibwezi ; on Kikuyu in Njoro and parts of Laikipia
to demonstrate the ‘cost’ of the petition to ordinary citizens), it is evident
that the 1997 election was no model of the sort of ‘free and fair’ event that
Kaluma expects his proposed IEBC reform will guarantee. So what, altogether, is required to ensure future elections are
managed in a way that respects “the will of the voters”? Among many factors, a key one is the distinction between the method
of selecting commissioners (along with other staff) and their day-to-day
independence once in office  — that is,
between formal procedure and informal practice  — a distinction that is relevant to all public
institutions. Beyond the method of commissioner-appointment, Kaluma should also
recall that the IPPG reform deal was rejected not just by section of pro-reform
MPs, but also by  the NGO-led National
Convention Executive Council headed by such luminaries as Dr Willy Mutunga,
Prof Kivutha Kibwana and Maina Kiai, who argued that it had not gone nearly far
enough with regard to either its content, or legislative codification . Of course, this is not to discourage Kaluma or anyone from
attempting to engineer improvements in the country’s institutional structure,
whether or not this requires constitutional amendments.  But in doing so, they are advised to take a
deeper look at the country’s history. After all, there’s no point in trying to
re-invent the wheel when that wheel’s performance was seriously less than
perfect in the first place.   Dr Wolf is  a research analyst
for Ipsos-Kenya. He has offered these remarks in his personal capacity