Deputy President William Ruto has termed the ongoing debate about the proposed referendum as pure idle talk. Ruto said it is unfortunate that many leaders are currently focused on the referendum issue and have forgotten about services to wananchi. The DP spoke during the commissioning of the Terem-Chwele-Nalondo water project in Terem, Mount Elgon on Friday. He said it beats sense that people are more focused on changing the Constitution other than delivering on their 2017 poll manifestos. "We need to focus on service delivery to the people. This ongoing rhetoric is idle talk and it should not be allowed to continue. The public is waiting for improved services," he said. Ruto said that the elected leaders owe the public efficient service delivery and a proper development agenda adding that citizens had elected individuals who they felt were competent enough to serve. "The people did their part and made up their mind on who was best to lead them. Now we owe them by ensuring that we deliver on our manifesto and not engaging in idle talk," he said. The Deputy President further said that he had no qualms with leaders from any political divide. Also read: Fear of isolation changed Ruto's tune on referendum Bungoma Senator Moses Wetang’ula, for his part, said the referendum should not be used to resurrect political lives of certain leaders. The lawmaker said the referendum issue should be sincere to the public as there were two options to amending the current Constitution. He said should the referendum go to the public, it should be through a genuine case that will help and using an agreed upon question and not one to help people politically. "There are two options available to us in this issue about the changing of this constitution. Article 256 says we can use Parliament and Article 257 through public. The one that will go through people should not be used to support people to resurrect their careers," he said. The Sh500 million Terem water project was done through a grant by the South Korean government. An estimated 12,000 families are set to benefit from the second phase. The Deputy President further said that the national government had allocated a further Sh 1.1 billion towards various water projects in the county to boost access to the commodity. Click here for the latest political news