Ugandan has promised to end harassment against Kenyan fishermen in Lake Victoria should they abide by maritime laws. The Ugandan government said Kenyan fishermen normally bend laws governing fishing activities in Lake Victoria which has led to consistent arrests and detention. The Uganda’s Special Presidential Advisor in the Office President Yoweri Museveni, Mohammed Mayanja said they are committed to protect all fishermen operating in the lake. He told fishermen who will be harassed by security officers from his country to report the cases to the relevant authorities. Mayanja disclosed that they had given the security detail in Kenya and Uganda emergency alert numbers through which they can respond promptly to distress calls from fishermen. “Kenyans should rest assured that there will be no more harassment of fishermen in Lake Victoria. The availed communication channels would assist in addressing conflicts among fishermen in the lake,” Mayanja said. Mayanja told fishermen to also report matters of extortions which they have accused Ugandan security officers. “Ugandan government doesn’t condone habits of harassments and extortions in anyway. Such issues should be reported that appropriate action cane taken,” he added. Speaking at a cross border meeting that brought together security officials from Uganda and Kenyan counties bordering the lake on Monday, Mayanja said Ugandan government is committed to peace and prosperity between the two countries. He said his country is already engaging Kenya government to address the conflict pitting Kenya and Uganda over Migingo Island through committees set by President Uhuru Kenyatta and Yoweri Museveni. “The two technical committees are mandated to solve the boundary dispute over Migingo. The outcome from the committee will be accepted by the two counties,” he said. Homa Bay county commissioner Irungu Macharia and Suba North MP Millie Odhiambo said the two countries are working to harmonized laws that will guide fishing operations in the lake. Macharia said the officials from both governments are working on common laws that will enable fishermen to move across the lake without harassment. “After we finalize of formulating the laws, fishermen will have an opportunity to move to and from either countries without being penalized,” Macharia said. The administrator said the two countries will deploy security officials who will conduct patrols on the lake. “We are working on logistical issues which will enable us have joint operation on the lake. What is most important now if for fishermen to play by the rules from both countries,” said Macharia. Suba North MP Millie Odhiambo said she will engage MPs from the neighbouring country in addressing issues affecting fishermen. The MP said she will, together with Kenyan legislators form a special agricultural committee which will take the matter to the East African Community. Homa Bay County Secretary Isaiah Ogwe said the county government will support Kenyan government in conducting its security operations in Lake Victoria.