President Uhuru Kenyatta on Wednesday made an impromptu visit to Uhuru Gardens primary school, Nairobi. He offered moral encouragement as candidates prepared for Day 2 of KCPE. The president was accompanied by Education CS Amina Mohamed and Knec chairman George Mahoga. "We are just here to encourage you and to ask you to do your best and to be happy with your best," Uhuru said. He entered every classroom and encouraged the candidates to believe in themselves and be proud of what they will achieve in the exams. "So long as you have studied, so long as you have prepared well, that's all that is required." "We are wishing you success and offering prayers. Good luck and success everybody and God bless you!" the president said. Candidates will on Wednesday tackle Science, Kiswahili, and Insha. On his way out of the school, Uhuru had a word with residents who had gathered at the gate. He urged them to maintain silence to avoid interrupting the candidates. One roadside hawker walked up to him and offered him a bunch of babanas and had a rare opportunity to shake the president's hand. Uhuru accepted the offer with humility saying "hii ni ya breakfast" (this is for breakfast). The generous gesture by the hawker was rewarded in equal measure as Uhuru instructed one of his security men to offer him something. "Patia yeye kitu," he said as the crowd cheered. State officers, led by Cabinet Secretaries, were dispatched to oversee the opening of KCPE storage containers in various parts of the country. Interior CS Fred Matiang'i was in Kilifi. He criticised those against the deployment of police officers to man the exams. Environment CS Keriako Tobiko was in Makueni for the exercise while Amina was in Langata sub-county before joining Uhuru at the city primary school. The Education CS was accompanied to Langata by KNEC chairman George Magoha and CEO Mercy Karogo and Teachers service Commission  CEO Nancy Macharia. Devolution CS Eugene Wamalwa monitored the opening of the container at Nanyuki, Laikipia East subcounty. Education PS Belio Kipsang opened the exams container at Kikuyu town while Kenya Institute of Curricular Development Director Julius Jwan opened the exams container in Kericho town. Click here for the latest political news