Former Sports Cabinet Secretary Hassan Wario and Olympics legend Kipchoge Keino have a case to answer in the Rio Olympic scandal, DPP Noordin Haji has said. The DPP approved the prosecution of the two and five others implicated in the Sh55 million scandal. The lot was ordered to present themselves to the DCI on Monday. Former Sports PS Richard Ekai and director of administration at the ministry Harrun Komen Chebet are among the key suspects named in the sleaze. Also facing charges are former NOCK secretary Francis Kanyili, Kiptanui Arap Soi (Chief de Mission), and Patrick Kimanthi (deputy NOCK Treasurer). Read: DPP orders prosecution of Sports CS Wario over Rio scandal "Accordingly, I have directed the DCI to immediately have the persons named arraigned in court," Haji said. "On October 1, the DCI re-submitted the inquiry file with a recommendation to charge Wario and six others." The DCI, in December 2016, received a report on alleged mismanagement of millions of shillings meant for Team Kenya which participated in the Rio Summer Olympics Games, 2016. "Upon independent review and consideration of evidence contained in the inquiry file, I am satisfied that there is sufficient evidence to charge the above suspects for misappropriation of over Sh55 million," Haji said. They will face six counts of abuse of office and four counts of willful failure to comply with the law relating to the management of public funds. The lot will also be charged with embezzlement of Sh22.5 million, Sh16.8 million in underutilised air tickets, Sh15.9 million in overpaid allowances, and Sh6.5 million expenditure on unauthorised persons. Haji added that the individuals in the case were unlawfully facilitated by the officials with air tickets and allowances to travel to Rio in contravention of the laid down procedures. "I have referred the matter to the Asset Recovery to act on the same. I have asked for a further investigation to be conducted into donations made to the National Olympics Committee of Kenya." Haji said that during the Rio Olympics the government set aside Sh544 million to facilitate athletes participating in the games. He said that unfortunately part of the funds was mismanaged, thus, denying the athletes proper facilitation. "The impacts of corruption and siphoning of funds meant for facilitation of our sportsmen and women has a negative impact on their ability to perform optimally," the DPP said. Click here for the latest political news