The
coastal region has since independence decried discrimination and marginalisation
from mainstream national agenda. Leaders
and communities alike have been complaining of being left out of social,
economic and political national processes. Whether its land, natural resources,
infrastructure or education, communities have perennially complained of marginalisation.
To address this perception, the government has in the past made half-spirited
attempts to try and resolve coastal issues. For example, in 2007, the
government set up the Sharawi Committee to look into issues related to Muslim
communities particularly at the Coast. In 2012, the government set up a task
force to look into grievances of coastal communities. In both cases, the
findings were never implemented and the initiatives appear to have been efforts
to hoodwink the coastal communities for electoral reasons. The perception of
marginalisation and discrimination to date remains unresolved and communities
unattended by successive regimes since Independence. The Coast
has also suffered major insecurity incidences related to the unresolved social,
economic and political issues. The history of the region is rich with
repetitive cycles of violence that take a new name after a decade or so but the
causes seem to remain the same. In 1997, the region exploded in an orgy of
violence that was meted out against what many described as upcountry
communities. Many people were killed and property worth millions destroyed. The
violence was blamed on local communities and it was said the cause was lack of opportunities
and marginalisation, amongst others. A decade later, in 2007, the Mombasa
Republican Council emerged on the same reasons of lack of opportunities and marginalisation.
The MRC had a huge following and what followed was violence and many coastal
communities boycotting elections. Ten years last year, many coastal youth are
said to have crossed the border to Somalia to join al Shabaab and engage in
violent extremism on the same reasons — lack of opportunities and marginalisation.
It seems the problem remains and in a cycle of around 10 years, it re-emerges
in a different form. Lack of
opportunities and marginalisation continue to bedevil the region. Whether this
is a perception or real, government and all other actors still have a duty to address
the issues. The lack of opportunities and marginalisation have manifested in
various forms. These include land problems, which have remained a thorn in the
flesh without respite in the offing. Current regime’s attempts to issue titles
have in some cases resulted in worse complaints such as the Likoni/Waitiki case.
Insecurity is also a major problem at the Coast, with violent extremism and
youth criminality widening the gap between the state and the communities. Extrajudicial
killings and enforced disappearance keep fueling the gap; economic
opportunities are lacking due to high levels of corruption, unemployment and
government’s failure to allow local participation in management of the port and
other affairs; poor education is reflected in yearly results of national
examinations where coastal counties are always at the tail end of the list in
terms of performances. Local communities have complained about poor education
standards due to unqualified officials and lack of investment in the sector, poor
infrastructure is displayed by the lack of investment in key installations such
as roads, where the region has the lowest tarmac per area ratio in the country.
All these are issues that have led to coastal population feeling marginalised
and lacking opportunities. The Coast
has a lot of potential to go on and be the most productive region in the
country. It has vast natural resources and assets as well as rich agricultural
land. With its pristine beaches, national parks and heritages sites, it
attracts hundreds of thousands of tourists every year, earning Kenya foreign
exchange. What is required in moving the region forward is support from the government
and the country. This support can be given in various ways. Specifically, Haki Africa
has five key recommendations to the Building Bridges Initiative towards
emancipation of the Coast region: Haki
Africa supports the building bridges initiative and sees it as an opportunity
for Kenyans to re organise themselves towards nationhood and prosperity. As an
organisation based in Mombasa, we believe the Coast can play an integral part
in this reorganistaion. This position paper presents what Haki Africa feels can
be done to position the region strategically. It is our hope that the views
will be considered and implemented.