Dear Moha, I hope you have been better since we last talked three weeks ago . I decided to pen you an open letter today because I have seen promos on social media concerning an expose #DuniaGunia you intend to make public. Not only am I doing this as a friend but also as someone you have mentored ..have summoned many times and guided whenever I made mistakes and I appreciate that a lot. You know what? I thought about tweeting you a thread ..but then remembered the ‘ akili ndogo kama sabuni ya lodging ’ counter attack you used on one of your friends. The idea immediately bolted faster than Bolt. Memories I remember the journalism you taught us in campus at Multimedia University when you showed up once to give us a lecture. I still have your notes and went through them last night because at a time like this when good journalism is increasingly becoming a rare commodity around us, I consider it the mother of all insults for one to even entertain the thought that he can function as an investigative journalist and actively participate in politics at the same time. It is the biggest and fattest lie we have indeed seen from you in 2018 .. ( sobs ..in disbelief ..) For the years you were in journalism, your experiments with investigative journalism were the toast of the industry. A gifted orator as well with a profound understanding of history, society and politics. You became the S.I unit of investigative reporting thanks to your ' Jicho Pevu ' outfit that evoked nationwide attention for its brilliant content mashed up with fascinating swahili diction and outstanding production quality. ‘Waswahili husema mgala muue na haki umpe . ’ Au sio ? Many expected you to be as successful in politics as you were journalism. I insist on ‘ were ’ because you ceased being a journalist the day you decided to wear your political affiliations on your sleeve. Accuracy For a man with a political agenda,fairness and accuracy are not served by pretending that you can have no biases while telling a story. That is only a story you can tell to the birds . In journalism, they are served by acknowledging where you’re coming from in terms of consistency and then being rigorous about following the facts where they lead. We have seen what you are trying to do. Joseph Pulitzer and William Randolph Hearst used their platforms to agitate for war, and authoritarian movements across Europe turned the press into an instrument of control. Do you remember? So please Moha, do not ruin a beautiful profession for budding journalists like myself. Who are in love and married to journalism. Real journalism speaks for the bush and provides solutions for public good. Independence Do you have transparency in what you want to do in the name of journalism with that expose? Who are you speaking for? As it stands even a toddler knows you do not speak for the public journalistically. Transparency in governance allows democracy to work as a political marketplace that repairs its errors as they are found. Since government officials who you nowadays fly around with and religiously defend despite the fact that some have even been found guilty of land grabbing, for example, seem to cloud your judgement, it falls to journalists (of which you are no longer) to put their feet to the fire. Impartiality We all have a duty to instil public confidence in professional journalism. We must hold our collective nerve and keep doing what’s right. Ask yourself, do you have the ability to recognize that there’s more than one part of a story and do justice to your political opponents within the story in your current state? Impartiality does not mean that we strike some sort of false balance, but that we reflect all contributions to a debate and give each of them their due weight. Journalism must stand with the public at all times. Are you Mohammed standing with the public currently? Are the people standing with you if not For journalism to maintain that trust we must be recognised not just as accurate, but as rigorously independent and genuinely impartial? The Media Council of Kenya should also come clear on this. Are they now accrediting sitting active politicians to go mainstream as journalists? Which media house will air your expose? Winston Churchill once said: “In war, you can only be killed once, but in politics, many times.” So, my dear friend, you chose politics where you have the many times advantage . Keep it at that instead of using journalism wrongly to propel your personal affiliations and political agenda’s and maiming a very noble life-changing profession while at it. I wish you nothing but the best. (Leon Lidigu is a student of Journalism at Pacific University, India )