Delayed payments by the government and corporates is killing small and medium enterprises, a bank official said yesterday. Barclays Bank of Kenya, head of enterprise and supply chain development Karen Kiambi said this has denied most SMEs reinvestment capital. This, she said, coupled with the difficulty to access funding from commercial banks following tough lending measures occasioned by the rate capping is crippling the SME sector. “SMEs lucky enough to be considered for supply contracts with big corporate organisations have had to grapple with delayed payments after delivery of goods and services,” she said. The impact of late payment for goods and services by suppliers is evidenced by closure of Tharaka Honey Limited in March last year, a business that had been operational for about eight years. Kapari, Seal Diamond, Acinon and Eastern Gas Distributors Limited have been forced to take credit facilities to remain in business. This is according to a joint study by manufacturers, retailers and suppliers on Kenya Retail Sector Prompt Payment released last September. Lack of cash flow for these businesses means projects are put on hold, salaries are delayed and in extreme cases the business owners are forced to layoff staff to cut operational costs. While the small firms lose suppliers goodwill due to delayed payments, they also face higher operational costs especially due to borrowing and lose their good credit ratings in the case they are unable to pay back their loan facilities. Data by the Central Bank shows gross non performing loans grew by 48.23 per cent last year to Sh256.41 billion. During the last Monetary Policy Committee press briefing CBK governor Patrick Njoroge said SMEs account for about 0.1 per cent of banks’ bad loans meaning small firms accounted for about Sh25.64 billion of last year’s gross NPLs. “In this era where there has been a credit squeeze over the past two years, we need to look at a way of doing SME financing quite differently,” Kiambi said. Barclays under its Enterprise and Supply Chain Development programme aims at lending Sh500 million to SMEs.