Some Jubilee politicians have taken over plans to help musicians from Central meet President Uhuru Kenyatta. The President pledged to meet the artistes during the burial of musician Joseph Kamaru in Murang’a two weeks ago. The President was responding to gospel musician Ben Githae, who spoke on behalf of musicians saying they had played a big role in Uhuru’s re-election. Githae produced one of the major songs used by the Jubilee Party to campaign. Githae later said he was unable to spearhead the meeting due to divisions among the artistes, who wanted to attend the meeting in their thousands. But Gatanga MP Joseph Nduati now says the plans are in top gear and the meeting will be held before November. Nduati said as an MP who represents a constituency with one of the highest number of musicians, he is working with other Central leaders including nominated MP Maina Kamanda, to make the meeting a reality. He said they will organise the artistes into a Sacco to access government funds saying that failure to have a structured group made it impossible for them to speak in one voice. “It was shameful to see them fighting but we are organising the meeting afresh with Kamanda and the President has confirmed that he will meet them before the month ends,” Nduati said. He said despite the infighting, President Kenyatta is eager to meet the artistes. Nduati said this on Sunday at Gatunyu grounds during the finals of the Talanta Mashinani programme that he initiated in May to identify and nurture new talent. He said the area has more than 3,000 known artistes, most of whom are aging, but noted that there is a crop of young artistes who are unable to rise due to financial constraints. “Gatanga is known as the home of talent but we have not had new talent for many years,” he said. The programme that went round all the five wards aims at exposing young talent in singing, acting, dancing and poetry. Nduati said the Ministry of Information has provided a studio where winners will record their songs. Besides monetary awards, the finalists will also perform at Carnivore during Gatanga Night next month. The MP said he plans establish Studio Mashinani in Gatanga so that locals can gain experience in singing and broadcasting locally. “We are also requesting the government to establish Cinema Mashinani to help those talented in acting get a chance to showcase their talents and sell their films,” he added.