Detectives on Wednesday questioned Marsabit governor Mohamud Ali and other leaders over clashes that have left 14 people dead in a month and a half. Others are Deputy Governor Solomon Gubo, Senator Godana Hargura, nominated senator Naomi Waqo, MPs Ali Dido (Saku), Chachu Ganya (North Horr), Roba Sharu (Moyale), Malimo Arbelle (Laisamis) and Woman Representative Safia Adan. The leaders spent more than six hours at the Eastern Regional DCI headquarters in Embu. They were summoned because of allegations they were behind the skirmishes. They denied any responsibility. Ali said they had been summoned to say what they know about the clashes that started last month but heightened on Saturday last week. The governor and other leaders who were quizzed blamed the clashes on land disputes, laxity of security officers, incitement by some national government leaders and discrimination against some communities. They spoke to the press after they were questioned. On Wednesday, three people died in a dawn attack at Jaldesa village. Residents said the attack was a retaliatory raid targetting women and children who had fled their homes in Qubi Qallo and Dhokatu villages on Tuesday. Hundreds of people have fled their homes since the sporadic clashes erupted on September 5. Extra police were deployed. The fighting has been linked to politics, with some leaders said to be fanning violence as they position themselves for the 2022 General Election. Ali said the clashes started when an old man was killed on September 5. Two more people were killed later on. He said after the September attack, more skirmishes started last Saturday. The first one took place in Shurr early in the morning, where four people lost their lives. In the afternoon a retaliatory attack took place in Kubikaro and another four people were killed. The skirmishes have led to the closure of some schools. The governor said that during the second attack on Saturday, livestock were stolen and a borehole destroyed. Ali said he received a call at 9am while in Isiolo, where he was attending a governors’ meeting, and was informed about the first Saturday attack. He said he immediately called the county commissioner and police commander, who told him security personnel had been sent to the scene. He said after the September clashes, the leaders met and made several resolutions to stop further bloodshed. The resolutions included disarmament of people illegally possessing firearms, resettlement of those displaced during the clashes and arrest the perpetrators. He said, however, that to date the resolutions have not been implemented. “After the first incident, we organised a meeting with the area MPs, MCAs, interfaith council comprising of all communities and security team. We came up with resolutions but the security team did not implement any of those we made that day,” Ali said He said he met Interior CS Fred Matiang’i and the Inspector General of Police Joseph Boinnet on Sunday to seek their assistance. The leaders blamed a senior national government leader from the region of influencing security operations in a biased manner. They demanded his removal. They asked the President to intervene and ensure normalcy is restored. The leaders urged residents to live in harmony and ignore those seeking to tear them apart through incitement. 