President Uhuru Kenyatta’s administration wants to save up to Sh30 billion by restricting foreign travel for county government staff and MCAs in austerity measures aimed at cutting government expenditure. The government which is facing a financial crunch and Sh500 billion budget deficit has issued stringent guidelines to stem the penchant for foreign trips among county government officials. The government projects to slash by half the Sh65.5 billion foreign and domestic travel for county workers and members of county assemblies. In the new stringent regulations, MCAs and county staff will now have to justify and seek the approval of the Ministry of Devolution to travel abroad. The approval will be made upon submission of a needs-and-benefits assessment before travel arrangements are made. Both the Council of Governors and the County Assemblies Forum reacted angrily to the new regulations, terming them as an assault on devolution. Read: 2015 in review: MCAs' love for foreign trips BENEFIT All applications for international travel by county staff will be accompanied by a statement of benefit to the respective county and endorsed by the County Secretary. "In the case of MCAs, requests for travel approval must be accompanied by minutes of the respective assembly committee authenticated by the speaker of the respective assembly," reads the circular by Devolution Principal Secretary Charles Sunkuli. "The guidelines apply to all staff of county executives and county assemblies," adds Sunkuli. The circular to county assembly clerks and county secretaries warns that foreign workshops requiring participation or registration fees will not be approved. The circular is copied to Head of Public Service Joseph Kinyua, Devolution CS Eugene Wamalwa, Foreign Affairs PS Macharia Kamau and Council of Governors CEO Jacqueline Mogeni, and County Assemblies Forum CEO Judy Oduma. The MCAs will be required to disclose air ticket cost, accommodation and daily expenditures, visa fees, registration fees and other extra expenses. "All travel requests shall indicate the total cost of travel (if they are to be met by the GoK funds or the organizers) for each person,"adds the circular. “At the end of an official visit, the delegation shall provide a report as well as recommendation for implementation. This report should as much as possible be shared across government and counties for others to learn from,” Sunkuli said. Read: State restricts MCAs' foreign trips to curb wastage The MCAs and county ministers will also be required to furnish the Devolution PS with information on budget allocation for the trip and the relevant vote in printed estimates where the funds will be drawn from. The ministry will only approve conferences seeking MCAs to pay participation fees to “recognized” international institutions where Kenya is a member. It will also approve foreign training for the professional development of MCAs as per the Public Service provisions on human resource if the training is not offered locally. All invitation letters pertaining to travel shall bear the official stamp indicating they were received in the office of the respective County Secretary or Clerk and must be marked "approved". The move is aimed at curbing the appetite for foreign trips even when the MCAs or county staff have no official invitation letters detailing how the cost of such events would be made. It is part of cross cutting measures by the national government to rationalize travel budgets across the board in light of economic adversity. Auditor General Edward Ouko has previously flagged suspicious costs incurred by county staff on nondescript bench-marking missions abroad or honouring invitations from faceless companies for training sessions. The trips offer an opportunity for public officials to mint money but are often of little value to the entities they represent.  Often, no back to office reports are filed or followed up with implementation. More: Embu MCA's, assembly officials pocketed millions in unjustified Tanzania trips REACTIONS Yesterday MCAs reacted angrily to the restrictions imposed by the national government and threatened to move to court to overturn the circular. County Assemblies Forum Secretary-General Eric Wamumbi termed as the restrictions as a callous affront by the national government on the county assemblies’ constitutional mandate. He said warned that MCAs will “reject any attempt by whatever quarters to curtail their work.” "County assemblies are not answerable to the Ministry of Devolution. The work of Sunkuli's department is to ensure that devolution is working for the people. We will not comply with the guidelines issued," he said. Wamumbi said MCAs operate within the budget ceilings set by the Commission on Revenue Allocation and approved by the respective county assemblies. Council of Governors chairman Josphat Nanok said the directive was not only illegal but an affront on county governments as established under the Constitution. He said the county governments are not answerable to the national government and would continue to expend resources as per the law. "The Ministry of Devolution can therefore not purport to supervise the implementation of county budgets. Every county government’s expenditure is guided by a budget approved by the county assembly," said the Turkana governor. Nanok cited Article 6 of the Constitution which states that national and county governments are distinct. "On this premise, the ministry cannot propose to interrogate and sieve travel requests from counties while there exist institutions at the county level that approve county work plans and budget," Nanok said. "The council asks you to withdraw the letter with immediate effect. It is our hope that this matter will be settled amicably without resulting in unnecessary exchange or even legal recourse," Nanok told Sunkuli. See also: Bungoma MCAs given Sh1.1m to attend Uhuru’s function in county BUDGET CEILINGS According to budget implementation reports by Controller of Budget Agnes Odhiambo, most county executives and assemblies often exceed budget ceilings set by the Commission on Revenue Allocation. Scrutiny of the reports shows that since the inception of county governments in 2013, MCAs have gobbled up nearly Sh18.6 billion on trips abroad and local benchmarking tours. Governors, their ministers and staff from the executive arm have spent a staggering Sh46.9 billion on travels with significant annual increases. For instance, in the 2013/14 financial year, county assemblies spent Sh3.7 billion while the Executive spent Sh7.7 billion on travels. In the 2014/2015 financial year, MCAs used up to Sh3.4 billion and the Executive ate up Sh9.1 billion. In 2015/16, county assemblies consumed Sh4 billion compared to Sh11 billion by the executive. Following the same trajectory, MCAs spent sh4.6 billion and the executive another Sh12.1 billion in the 2016/ 17 financial year. Last year (2017/18), MCAs were at it again, spending Sh2.9 billion while the executive arm frittered away Sh7 billion at ay March 2018. More: MCAs on Sh30m 'unnewsworthy' trips abroad Click here for the latest political news