Businessman Brian Kassaine who lent a pistol that the prime suspect in the gruesome murder of Monica Kimani in Kilimani used to shoot himself, has been set free by the police. After 13 days in custody, the Lang’ata businessman was allowed to go on condition he reports to the DCI headquarters every Thursday for the next two months. Police sources yesterday said Kassaine will most likely throw his friend Joseph Irungu, alias Jowie, under the bus. Irungu is the fiance of Citizen TV reporter Jacque Maribe and the prime suspect in the September 19 murder of Monica. Monica was a budding businesswoman, who had only hours earlier arrived from Juba, South Sudan. She was to travel to Dubai. Investigations officer Maxwell Otieno said Kassaine is still being treated as a key suspect. Maribe and Irungu will be presented in court on Monday after they were ordered remanded. This was to allow Maribe to take a mandatory mental test. Read; Cops quiz Maribe fiance in murder of Kilimani woman Detectives investigating the matter applied to have Kassaine released on condition he reports twice a week as they probe the murder. But the suspect, through his lawyer Kefa Ojijo, objected to the application, arguing that he should be released without any condition. Lawyer Ojijo told Kiambu principal magistrate Justus Kituku his client was innocent and had no links to the murder. But Kituku ordered Kassaine to appear before the DCI every Thursday for next two months. Read:Suspect in Kilimani woman's murder arrested He has also directed him to deposit his passport with the police within 48 hours. “...failure to comply with the orders, the police will be at liberty to seek warrant of arrest on the same,” the magistrate said. On his arrest, Kassaine told police Irungu shot himself in a botched suicide attempt. He said that Irungu had on September 11 borrowed his Ceska pistol for “training”, but the gun had no bullets. Kassaine said he was at his Royal Park estate house in Lang’ata on September 21 when he was woken up at around midnight by someone knocking his gate. 