A Konion family is seeking justice for a 29-year-old son who was allegedly abducted and later roughed up by MP Brighton Yegon over political differences. They want the police to expedite investigations and prefer charges against Yegon and his ‘accomplices’ for assaulting Nicholas Ngetich from Kapset village. Yegon has denied the claims. But Ngetich’s father, Eric Towett, said he should not be let scot-free just because he is a lawmaker. “Police should act independently and ensure justice is served. We’ve had many cases where someone ‘big’ in society is let off the hook. There’s enough cause to warrant his arrest to prevent a similar incident from happening to anyone else,” he said. Meanwhile, Konoin DCI officer Felix Mutua moved to court to obtain an arrest warrant after Yegon failed to honour a Tuesday summons. He was told to appear in person at the Konoin police station to record a statement. Ngetich said he had taken Yegon to task on a WhatsApp group to explain why he had his name on playing kits used for a constituency tournament. Read: Cops seek Bomet MP over alleged assault of man “These were not his personal donations. They were acquired using our money,” he said. Yegon was angered, he added. He was picked up by the Yegon and six individuals, and bundled into the MP’s car before being driven to James Finlay Tea Estate, taken around plantations for more than three hours and brutally assaulted before being dropped, he said shortly after recording a statement on Monday. Ngetich said he was on a boda boda heading back home after attending a football match in Chebangang with two others when Yegon’s driver ordered him to enter the car. “When we resisted, he pulled me from the bike and threw me into the car before speeding off.” Ngetich went to the police station in the company of his parents and a section of youth. He had a bandage around his right wrist and above the left eye. He blamed his ordeal on his political differences with Yegon. Ngetich said the MP was visibly angry and kept beating and slapping him while asking why he had been abusing him on social media, “yet poll campaigns were over”. “I had to ask for forgiveness so he could release me. Otherwise, he could have caused more harm to me,” he said. Yegon denied beating him. He said they were rescuing him from an angry mob after he tried to disrupt a football match. “Those are strange allegations. I’m the one who saved him. I fixed him in my car. He is the one who requested that I should not drop him anywhere around that venue for fear of being attacked and so we had to take him some distance away,” he said. Click here for the latest political
news