As political, conservation and private sector leaders meet in London for the Illegal Wildlife Trafficking (IWT) Conference on October 11 and 12, convened by the UK government, African elephant range states will be seeking concrete global support to implement their new and robust blueprints to save their elephants. In recent years, many of the range states on the continent have been putting themselves on a stronger footing to jointly respond to the resurgent elephant poaching and illegal trafficking crisis in Africa, under the umbrella of the Elephant Protection Initiative (EPI). Formed in 2014 by the leaders of 5 African countries, the African-led Initiative so far brings together 19 of the 38 range states in the continent. These EPI Member countries are forging common plans and actions to build sustainable futures for elephants and the people living near them, with strong backing from at least 30 national and international NGOs and other partners. The EPI is a clear demonstration of Africa taking the lead in not only securing the future of its threatened elephants but also ensuring better livelihoods for its people living alongside the invaluable animals —but who often bear the brunt of elephant-human conflicts while gaining little benefit from the ecotourism revenues generated by the largest land mammal. Specifically, EPI countries are working to address the elephant crisis through implementation of the African Elephant Action Plan (AEAP) that was jointly developed and approved by all the elephant range states in Africa, enabling stronger cross-border collaborations and in-country actions to meet the transnational poaching and trafficking challenge more effectively. Based on this common African plan, individual EPI countries have developed or are developing their National Elephant Action Plans (NEAPs) that take into account their unique local circumstances to make them more effective on the ground. It’s the full and timely implementation of these national plans across Africa that needs unwavering political, financial and technical backing from bilateral, multilateral and private partners to enable the elephant range states on the continent to take not only the priority but also the long-term steps to save their elephants and their people. Financial and technical support for the NEAPs means stronger action in anti-poaching and anti-trafficking, law enforcement, information-sharing across borders, public education, habitat protection and restoration, community livelihood support, elephant-human conflict reductions, international lobbying against domestic ivory markets and putting national ivory stockpiles beyond economic use among other priority steps. African range states within EPI need at least US$ 1 billion dollars over the next 12 years to implement their ambitious programmes for elephants and people— a modest amount when spread across eligible countries but whose returns will be significant. Seven EPI countries — Chad, Angola, Gabon, Malawi, Uganda, Kenya and Ethiopia — will be coming to the London conference with completed and carefully costed National Elephant Action Plans totaling US$268 million over the next three years to share with the international community during the EPI’s inaugural Consultative Group meeting that’s co-hosted by the British Government and President Ali Bongo Ondimba of Gabon, who’s leading the EPI delegation. The Duke of Cambridge, Prince William who has dedicated his efforts to end wildlife crime globally, and recently visited some EPI countries, is also expected to grace the occasion to lend his voice in support of African range states. Africa has risen to the challenge and has developed its own clear plans to save their elephants and their people. Will the world respond robustly? In the few years of its existence, EPI’s efforts have played a role in the closure of some domestic ivory markets such as China that have contributed to the horrific surge in elephant poaching in Africa while the UK recently announced plans to ban ivory sales within the country. The terrible rise in elephant poaching and trafficking in the past decade, especially in Central Africa, where the killing rates are as much as twice as the continental average, means decisive support for countries in the continent to develop and implement their NEAPs is more urgent than ever before. The majority of Africa’s surviving elephants – both forest and savannah species - are in EPI countries, stretching from Botswana to Mali and from Guinea to Malawi, meaning sustained and coordinated conservation efforts within these jurisdictions is more likely to have lasting impacts. The ongoing killings of elephants in Africa cannot be allowed to go on or else we stand the real risks of losing viable elephant populations in Africa within our generation and losing the many invaluable ecological, socio-cultural and economic benefits that elephants provide. The time for decisive action is now.  Michael O’Brien-Onyeka is the Senior Vice President of Conservation International (CI) in Africa. CI and Stop Ivory are Co-secretariats to the Elephant Protect Initiative (EPI)  Click here for the latest political news 