The DCI and DPP have separately dismissed claims by lawyer Charles Kanjama of an alleged cover-up in the attempted murder case of former Garissa Finance executive Idriss Mukhtar. Haji termed Kanjama’s claims "innuendos and rumours", saying they are not supported by any evidence. "For the avoidance of any doubt, this office does not operate on rumours, innuendos, conjecture or contrived theories in making prosecutorial decisions but is purely guided by evidence and the law," Haji said. The Director of Public Prosecutions said the lawyer informed him of the alleged interference of the case in a letter dated October 15. Kanjama, who was allegedly a target of a murder conspiracy by the same killers who shot Mukhtar, is representing the latter's family in the case. Mukhtar is undergoing treatment in India. He has been in a coma since he was shot in the head by a lone gunman on August 18 in Kileleleshwa. Garissa governor Ali Korane has been linked to the crime. Also read: Idriss Mukhtar's family rejects probation report on suspects Related: Garissa governor Ali Korane arrested over finance executive's shooting See: How I was hired to kill Idriss Mukhtar - David Mwai The DPP further dismissed claims by Kanjama that there is a deal for Mukhtar’s family to reach an out of court agreement with his attackers. "Kindly be advised that the two are not matters that would guide and influence us in the making of our decision to prosecute. In any event, we are not aware of any such dealings and or political interest in the case," Haji said. He urged Kanjama to observe fidelity to the rule of law and challenged him or anyone in Mukhtar’s family to provide any leads that can blow the case open. Director of Criminal Investigations George Kinoti rubbished Kanjama’s claims that some suspects linked to the attempted murder are still at large. He said suspects Mohamed Hussein Aden and Juliet Charity Njoki are in police custody over the crime. "Let the family and advocate concerned know that our investigations are focused. They are not meant to assist any party to achieve any collateral purpose," Kinoti said in a statement. He also challenged Kanjama to come forward with any evidence that may help in the case. "As investigators, we act on the basis of facts and the law in the discharge of our mandate and nothing else," Kinoti said. He said his office will not shield anyone who is criminally culpable. Click here for the latest political news