A Mombasa court has declined to allow criminal proceedings instituted against Daljit Singh Dhanjal, one of the sons of the late businessman Jaswant Singh Dhanjal. Daljit was found to have interfered with the estate of his late father but was spared conviction. Jaswant Dhanjal died in 2004 and left behind five children - three sons and two daughters. The lot is now involved in a succession tussle of the family business worth over Sh2.17 billion. Their claim is only a segment of the vast estate of the departed tycoon. The suit was filed by Jaspal Kaur Nagi, the eldest son, against her brother Daljit. Jaspal said the interference with the estate of the deceased person is a criminal offence under the Succession Act. She further noted under the law of succession, what Daljit had done was punishable by imprisonment, fine or both as provided under Section 45[2] [a] of the Act. But Judge Mugure Thande declined to issue orders allowing the prosecution of Daljit, the third son of the deceased. The latter doubles up as the director of Dhanjal Brothers - an Infrastructure Construction, Building, and Maintenance company. Mugure said despite the court’s finding, both parties remain siblings and will remain family members after they leave the courts. "In dealing with matters concerning families, the court must be mindful of the need to foster lasting family relations," she said. The judge said nothing in the law prevented the court from granting the orders sought but that would be a restorative measure than punitive measures. She said the family needs measures that would promote harmony among the Dhanjal siblings. She added that granting the orders would result in further degeneration of the relationship and would tear the family apart further than it is now. "At the end of the day, each party wants to benefit from the estate of their late father and it is important they do not lose the sight of that ultimate goal." Judge Mugure said her duty and that of the court is to ensure that the estate is protected and eventually distributed to all beneficiaries fairly. She said her declination to grant the orders was to create a conducive atmosphere for the distribution of the estate. The petition was filed at the High Court in Mombasa in 2014 by Joginder Singh. He had claimed that his brother transferred some of the shares to himself using 'devious means, intimidation, and coercion'. The petitioner said he had learned about this when he signed documents, presented at the court, whose contents he did not understand. The Sh2.17 billion company deals in land acquisition, construction, building, maintenance, leasing as well as the acquisition and purchase of merchandise. Click here for the latest political news  