Migori governor Okoth Obado has said his release on bail will help him focus on serving the county. In a statement sent to media houses, Obado thanked his supporters and family who stood by him during his ordeal. He also thanked his staff, members of county government and residents who stood by him. “I thank you for standing with me during this trying moment,” Obado said. The governor thanked the court for granting his request for bail. “This has now given me opportunity to effectively work for the people of Migori as their governor,” he said. He added that he will respect the court and abide by the conditions it set for his bail terms. On Thursday evening, Obado left the Industrial Area remand prison after 34 days in custody. He is facing murder charges following the murder of his lover, former Rongo University studentSharon Otieno and their unborn seven-month-old son. His two personal assistants and co-accused Michael Oyamo and Caspal Obiero were denied bail. Read: Obado barred from Sharon's home county Homa Bay as condition for bail Ayacko elected During his time in police custody, operations at county government was disrupted. A week ago, 25 MCAs invaded education offices and carted away bursary cheques following long delays. County secretary Christopher Rusana and county public service board interdicted the finance chief officer Samuel Omuga, his brother-in-law. Omuga has since moved to Kisumu Labour Relations Court to quash the decision. His absence also saw his political nemesis Ochillo Ayacko being elected senator on an ODM ticket, beating Obado’s preferred candidate, Federal Party of Kenya candidate Eddy Oketch. His arrest has seen his detractors plan an impeachment motion. “We still seek to have Obado step aside as he is not fit to lead Migori. We have given MCAs instructions to that end,” Migori ODM chairman Philip Makabongo said in a press statement. But in his statement, the governor called for all “leaders or ethnic affiliations, to embrace peace and unity” for sale of steering “foward the development agenda of our county.” Also Read: 'I'm innocent': Obado says as MPs pay him surprise visit in prison Click here for the latest political news