A Jubilee politician from Mt Kenya, initially in the forefront of drumming support for Deputy President William Ruto's 2022 bid, has suddenly gone slow. The MP who developed huge pockets during his heydays with the DP is nowadays seen visiting second-tier clubs in Nairobi, an indication that he could have run broke. While he was initially accustomed to Five-star hotels in Nairobi, his latest lifestyle speaks the opposite. The MP's dressing style has also deteriorated, depicting how his wardrobe could be suffering from his declining fortunes. His garments appear to be sourced from Nairobi's popular low class shopping malls. His opponents are said to be warming up to the DP amid speculation that he may have fallen out of favour. Keep it here for more updates.  ** Talk of reaping where they have not sown and the outlawed Mungiki criminal gang comes to mind. The group which appears to be on the resurgence is gearing up, raring and daring anyone to defy its orders and learn a lifetime’s lesson. Corridors has learnt that all official and unofficial Matatu termini in Nairobi and its environs are once again falling to the rule and thumb of the outlawed group. Worst hit are stages for the CBD-Kikuyu, CBD-Thika, Eastlands and Ngong routes. They have positioned their agents to collect what they term as their tithe every few kilometres along the routes. Defaulting matatus are put o notice, harassed and barred from picking passengers. The group operates in the full view of police and intelligence. So are they working in cahoots with police or are they enjoying the patronage of political godfathers again?  ** Despite the much-publicized ‘noisy and messy’ termination of former Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission CEO Ezra Chiloba over procurement queries related to last year’s elections, IEBC’s website still lists him as the chief executive. Is someone sleeping on the job at Anniversary Towers or is the game still on?  **  What did Justice James Wakiaga mean when he described TV journalist Jackie Maribe’s boyfriend and co-accused, Joseph Irungu aka Jowie, as ‘woman eater’ and the male version of slay queen? Well, the statement received sharp criticism from Kenyans who demanded that the good judge disqualify himself from hearing the case into the brutal murder of Monica Kimani. Pundits argued that given he has already expressed a coloured opinion against the 29-year-old murder suspect, is there chance of a fair trial? Some advocates were overheard at Milimani court echoing the condemnation of the judge’s statements and wondering whether he is fit to continue with the case given the ‘unfortunate personalized attack’.    