When is President Uhuru Kenyatta appointing a substantive State House spokesperson? Sources at State House have intimated to Corridors that not all is well in that department since the departure of former spokesman Monoah Esipisu who is now Kenyan’s High Commissioner in London. The source went ahead to say that PSCU had been plunged into disarray occasioned by the lack of a substantive spokesman. In June this year, Chief of Staff and Head of Delivery Unit Nzioka Waita appointed seasoned television new anchor Kanze Dena as Deputy State House spokesperson and months after Manoah left, the position is yet to be filled or Kanze elevated to the position. This has led to disgruntlement among senior staff in the department. ***** A section of ODM MPs fond of chest-thumping about how independent they are when transacting parliamentary business have devised ways of surviving especially after their ‘independence’ put them on a collision path with party leader Raila Odinga and by larger extension the electorate. The lawmakers, mainly from Nyanza, defied the former PM over the Financial Bill. After realising their actions might be interpreted by the electorate as their being anti-Raila trooped to Capitol Hill to pose for a picture with the ODM leader to show they are still in good books with him. Our small bird at Capitol Hill Square offices told Corridors how one lawmaker had to camp there for almost three days to have the all-important photo crucial for his political survival. ***** Did President Uhuru Kenyatta and William Ruto abandon embattled Nairobi county assembly speaker Beatrice Elachi at her hour of need? So it seems according to Elachi’s supporters. Elachi,the former nominated senator was not only Jubilee Party’s flagbearer for the Dagoreti North parliamentary seat, but was also one of UhuRuto’s chief campaigners. Since her removal by City MCAs, the party leadership has gone silent, leaving Elachi to fight for her position in court. ***** Last week Corridors told you how some members of a troubled commission are now unusually overstaying in office until wee hours of the night and are always at work early, tampering with some of the commission’s past minutes and paper trail. Now the members are said to be chest-thumping because they are untouchable. Why? Because a senior officer at EACC is said to be giving them protection thus ‘enjoying’ unknown immunity from arrests.The only hope now is in the no-nonsense Director of Criminal Investigations George Kinoti and the Director of Public Prosecutions Noordin Haji. have rocked his parastatal recently. Perhaps the investigating agencies could consider probing the top CEO with the aim of establishing if his lifestyle is commensurate with his employment terms. Click here for the latest political news