You feel that?” Rob asks as he does something with his penis that I can’t describe. It’s almost as if his member has a life of its own and can tip and hit my G-spot at will. I obviously scream with abandon when he does it and he has his answer. It was those damn screams. Waking up the neighbours as I cried out in pleasure is what has brought me here. He is treating me like shit because he can. Because he knows that I’m not going anywhere. No one gives up on sex that good. I’m no exception. Perhaps I’ve been looking at this whole thing wrong. I’ve been viewing Rob in terms of boyfriend/husband material but he’s not. A man as good-looking as him can never belong to just one woman. And as I said, walking away is not an option. So why not use him for his body just like men use women all the time? All the rich men I seduced and ended up blackmailing – Why were they with me? For my body, nothing more. It’s not like any of them wanted to marry me. Why can’t I be like them? View Rob in the same detached manner? I don’t need to get emotionally attached to a scrub that cannot take care of my limited resources (only 200 or so eggs in this womb, not much). But my body has needs. Urges. All in the hopes of fertilising said eggs. So we’re going to fool both my womb and Rob. All I need to do is make his life better so that he can service me regularly. It’s just like how you need to take your car in for an oil change. A basic service will include an oil and filter change. Perhaps a visual inspection. They’ll be a top-up of all key fluids in the engine, your steering fluid, brake fluid, etc. – Not unlike what my body needs. Swap the oil for semen. It runs better after that. Every time I take a pounding, my cervix will be weeping for joy, thinking procreation is on the way. It will calm down and stop making me so darn horny all the time. A good service. Yes, that’s what I need. Just like your car. So, no point getting emotional about the mechanic, is there? Pay him and he fixes your car. That’s how I’m going to view Rob from now on; my body’s mechanic. Whenever I go for trips out of town – Especially with my work, those come up all the time – I’ll simply take him along. He has no money so I guess he’ll appreciate me picking up the tab. He doesn’t need to know they are perks of the job. And even if he does, he is benefiting from my lifestyle, is he not? If he’s very thankful for my generosity, I suppose that will translate to him continuing to being the best darn mechanic ever. I pick up my phone and text him: Fancy a weekend away this week? It’s on me! Consider it an early birthday treat.