By all objective standards Kenya is one of the few countries in the world that can pride itself for having a constitution that establishes a functional democracy, limited government and enshrines the civil and political rights of citizens. This was not always the case and we all know the protracted battles, shattered lives, broken bones and blood that went into the struggle that finally gave us the current Constitution in August 2010. I was in Standard 8 in 1986 when Yoweri Museveni took over power in Uganda. Over three decades later he remains the dictator-in-charge yet in Kenya we had Moi for 16 more years, then Mwai Kibaki had 10 years and Uhuru Kenyatta is doing his sixth year in power. There is no guarantee that after 2022 a Raila Odinga or William Ruto presidency will not find Yoweri around. In Tanzania the High Court has no jurisdiction to adjudicate over election petitions whilst in Ethiopia there are no international headlines whenever soldiers execute 100 or more protesters. In short, Kenya may not be paradise on earth but we should occasionally utter a short prayer that our Constitution protects us from the excesses our neighbours experience. The Kenyan Constitution was not always the guarantor of our democracy and guardian of our freedoms. When Parliament was a rubber stamp of Jomo Kenyatta or Moi, it was largely because the law decreed it. Today Parliament plays second fiddle to the Jubilee presidency out of choice and inanity of our MPs rather than because the Constitution ordains it. Judges occasionally fail to deliver justice mainly out of their own fallibilities than because of legal constraints on them. The point here is that anyone seeking to replace our Constitution is well advised to mount one hell of a terrific case against it. Raila Odinga claims the Constitution has failed and so we must amend it, even overhaul it, before the 2022 general election. Two questions arise. If Raila had won the presidency in 2013 or 2017, would he be claiming the Constitution is not fit for purpose? In case Raila is granted his wish to change the Constitution and he loses the 2022 general election, will he give the Constitution a break? As a student of constitutional law, I am well aware that across the world constitutions are amended for good or bad reasons and motives and more often than not for the selfish gains of leading political actors but always in the name of the people. No doubt some provisions of our Constitution can be amended in a manner that advances the interests and welfare of Kenyans. What I find objectionable is when Raila for instance advocates for a parliamentary system of government with a three-tiered devolution on the pretext that it will save Kenyans from their misery. Equally true, it is hypocritical that in 2010 William Ruto said the Constitution is not good enough but now that it is about to give him the presidency on a silver platter, he proclaims it the best thing since sliced bread. Since the Constitution provides for how it can be amended it is well in order for Kenyans to advocate any changes they fancy. In seeking to amend the Constitution promoters of constitutional amendments should know from our history that chances for failure are higher than success, which might well explain why a smart politician like President Uhuru Kenyatta is cagey over this issue. More importantly, Kenya is not going through a constitutional moment that makes Raila’s referendum a matter of life and death. Since in the past Raila has failed to get power on account of legal changes through political or judicial processes, we should be wary about the prospects of the current initiative bearing any fruits. Must all political contests be framed by Raila as constitutional matters? Is it all that hard for a seasoned politician like Raila and his backers to win a straight political fight for votes against Ruto in 2022? Lest I am accused of political naiveté let me be blunt for a moment. The spectre of a William Ruto presidency gives jitters to many good and honourable people. There is no justification why Kiambu county should have a county assembly of 60 elected MCAs and 32 nominated MCAs. Since Uhuru has not been able to unite Kenyans after garnering over 50 per cent of their votes twice, it may be wise to give all the major ethnic chieftains a place at the high table. If changing the Constitution will help us to give redress to these concerns let us try and do it for heaven’s sake. However, let us be honest that all these schemes are not about Wanjiku! Constitutional lawyer kibemungai@yahoo.com 