Elections
in South West State, Somalia are scheduled on November 17. Under its constitution,
Somalia is a federal republic, giving different regions of the country and
their associated clans, a degree of regional autonomy. Among these, SWS has
suffered the most insecurity, violence, displacement and destitution since the
collapse of the Siad Barre regime in 1990 – this in spite of its being the
breadbasket of Somalia. The
reasons are historical and cultural. The clans of this region are not herders
like most Somali clans. Rather they are farmers or practice mixed farming and
herding. During
the civil war, this region was occupied, looted and pillaged by powerful clan
militias from other regions. The people of this region have also been betrayed
by their own political representatives, who have been more focused on acquiring
power at the centre and accruing personal wealth from foreign largesse, than
working for the well-being of their own constituents and advocating for them at
the federal level. Many traditional elders and much of the population felt
betrayed when in 2009, regional politicians agreed to cede claims to three of
the original six inter-riverine regions during the establishment of SWS. Additionally,
any leader that hopes to achieve legitimacy in SWS, which tends to be more
rural and conservative than other regions, has to be conversant not
only in state-based political and legal systems, but also in customary
decision-making and peacemaking processes, such as the xeer (contract) and on Islamic decision-making and peacemaking
processes, diin (religion). These
processes are someone different among clans in SWS than among pastoralist clans
of northern Somalia. Some of the politicians running for the position of
president of SWS have operated in the national and international arenas for so
long that they are no longer conversant in these practices. For
the historical reasons described above, along with the destitution and
instability resulting from the civil war, al Shabaab found easy recruits in
this region. For some, al Shabaab offered an ideology in which Islam united all
people, and were equal regardless of clan. This was heady balm for clans whom
other Somalis look down upon and whose distinct language was often mocked by
other Somalis. For
others, it offered income-generating opportunities in the face of the loss of
livelihoods generated by the war. It also offered a sense of security and predictability
in the face of the random violence of the ongoing conflict. Regrettably, for others,
it was a chance to exercise power through coercion and violence. In
2012, there was a schism between top al Shabaab leadership, involving top
commander Ahmed Abdi Godane and deputy commander Mukhtar Robow (aka Abu
Mansur). Robow
was perceived to be the more ‘moderate’ of the two, with local, rather than
global, ambitions. He split from Godane in 2013 and moved his followers to
Bakool. In 2014, the US government killed Godane. In 2016, the Somali
government offered amnesty to Al Shabaab militia, who agreed to surrender. Last
year, tired of violence and insecurity, Robow surrendered after some
negotiations. On
October 4, Robow announced his intention to run for office as President of SWS.
He is running against eight other candidates, including the incumbent, Sharif Hassan
Sheikh Adan. However, on October 5, the Somali government issued a statement refusing
to accept his candidacy. The Somali government is responding to pressure from the
international community and a variety of foreign donors, who do not consider Robow
an acceptable candidate. However, some observers surmise that the government
may also be responding to clan politics at the national level, and to pressure
from the incumbent and other candidates, who are afraid Robow will won, given
his popularity.  This
is a mistake on the part of the international community and the Somali
government. To achieve sustainable peace in this long-suffering region,
residents should be granted the right to choose their own leaders – those whom
they believe will prioritize the interests and the needs of the people. This is
the promise of federalism and how it is supposed to work. If the international
community is genuinely interested in building peace in Somalia, we must
acknowledge that history has taught us that the best way to end insurgencies is
to bring insurgents into the political process. The Somali government needs
help to defeat the remaining al Shabaab. If allowed to run for office, Robow
will presumably bring his fighters, followers, supporters, and sympathizers
with him out of the shadows into the civic life. It is only our prejudice
against certain types of insurgents (previously Marxists, presently Islamists) that
prevents us from recognising that this is best path for peace in Somalia. The international
community needs to set aside its prejudices and let the people of SWS, as well
as all Somalis, to choose the kind of country they want to live in.  Mary Hope Schwoebel Nova Southeastern University, Florida, USA Mohamed
Mukhtar, Savannah State University, Georgia, USA 