A 56-year-old man has been arrested in Florida in connection with a mail-bombing campaign aimed at critics of US President Donald Trump. US officials named the man as Cesar Sayoc. He faces five charges including mailing explosives and threatening ex-presidents. Trump said the acts were "despicable and have no place in our country". Fourteen items have been sent in recent days to figures including ex-President Barack Obama and actor Robert de Niro. Two were found in Florida and New York City on Friday morning. Later, two more were discovered in California. Billionaire and Democrat donor Tom Steyer said that a package sent to him had been intercepted at a mail facility in Burlingame, and another addressed to Democrat Senator Kamala Harris was reported in Sacramento. The incidents come less than two weeks before the US mid-term elections, with politics highly polarised. Media reports say Sayoc was arrested at a vehicle parts shop in the city of Plantation, Florida. FBI Director Christopher Wray revealed that he was detained after his fingerprint was allegedly found on one of the packages. US Attorney General Jeff Sessions said the suspect faced up to 58 years in jail. "We will not tolerate such lawlessness, especially political violence," he said at a news conference. "Let this be a lesson to anyone, regardless of their political beliefs, that we will use the full force of the law against you." Law enforcement agencies said Sayoc lives in Aventura, Florida. He reportedly has ties to New York and is a registered Republican. In 2002, he was arrested for making a bomb threat in Miami-Dade County, and received one year of probation for the charge. Sayoc has a criminal record dating back to 1991 in Broward County, according to clerk records. He was arrested, aged 29, on a theft charge. He has also faced charges of fraud and battery. Court records show Sayoc filed for bankruptcy in 2012 while he was living with his mother. A handwritten note in his bankruptcy report reads: "Lives w/mom. Has no furniture." In 1980, he spent three semesters as a student at Brevard College in North Carolina, a university spokeswoman told BBC News. He did not graduate, the spokeswoman added. US officials say that DNA evidence was used to track him down. Following his arrest, US TV broadcast live images of a white van, said to belong to Sayoc, being loaded on to a trailer in Plantation and towed away for examination. The van's windows were covered in images. One piece of artwork depicted President Trump standing on a tank and another showed Hillary Clinton with a bullseye superimposed on her face. A total of 13 devices were sent to the following 11 individuals, according to the FBI. The package sent to Steyer was not mentioned on the complaint against Mr Sayoc. None of the devices went off.