The wrangles pitting Murang’a government against water firms are not about to end as the county remains unflinching in its bid to take control of the sector. Yesterday, the county said it will not pay for goods and services bought by the companies without its consent. The Mwangi wa Iria administration cautioned financial institutions against lending the firms without its knowledge and approval. In a notice, the county secretary said some firms and their chairpersons and directors have been taking loans without consulting the county leadership. “We advise all banks and other lenders that such borrowing is unlawful. The county government and the people of Murang’a shall not be liable for the repayment,” the notice read in part. Chairpersons and directors will be held personally liable for any fraudulent debt incurred by their companies and the county will sue them for going against their duties and obligations, it said. The announcement came days after Murang’a South Water and Sanitation Company chairman Julius Manyeki denied handing over the assets of the firm to the county government. The firms have said they will not back down despite the onslaught. Last week, Muswasco said it had initiated the process of transferring its assets to the county government in compliance with the law. Minutes of a board meeting held on October 16 indicated that members had agreed to transfer the assets. But Manyeki dismissed the transfer claims as lies. He said the firms have autonomy granted by the Constitution even though they are agents of county governments and that he would call for a board meeting to discuss the issue. Yesterday, county secretary Patrick Mukuria said the Constitution and the County Government Act devolved water and sanitation services. “Murang’a has taken over these functions and is in the process of regularising this position through ownership and control of the water companies,” he said in the notice. He urged consumers not to pay their bills until the firms are fully under the county government. Mukuria said the firms are presently not entities of the county government and have no legal mandate to levy and collect revenue from residents. “Until the regularisation process is complete, no member of the public should pay any bills, levies or penalties,” he said. Mukuria wants the management of the companies to cooperate and facilitate conversion of the firms into county agencies. The firms include Murang’a Water and Sanitation Company (Muwasco), Murang’a South Water and Sanitation Company (Muswasco), Gatanga Community Water Scheme, Kahuti Water and Sanitation Company and Gatamathi Water and Sanitation Company. They have resisted changes proposed by the administration. They have also sued the county for attempting a takeover. A meeting by the Council of Governors and Devolution and Water Cabinet secretaries on October 8 concluded that water companies should be under the counties. Water CS Simon Chelugui said the World Bank had pulled out from funding some water projects in Murang’a because of wrangles. He said urged the firms to hand over to the county. Devolution CS Eugene Wamalwa, citing Muwasco, said private ownership is against the Water Services Regulatory Board’s Article of Association. He told the firms to change ownership with immediate effect. 