The Senate Committee on Delegated Legislation has come up with a draft Bill giving the House more powers to oversight the state by scrutinizing the statutory instruments such as by-laws, ordinance and regulations by ministries and agencies. The Statutory Instruments (Amendment) Bill 2018, which is before the Senate, seeks to include new provisions on the existing Act of 2013, which will allow senators powers to approve all statutes as the National Assembly. “Statutory instruments form part of the laws of Kenya. The content of these instruments may have an impact on the functions of county governments as stipulated in Part 2 of the Fourth Schedule of the Constitution,” reads the committee’s Bill. The Fourth Schedule outlines functions distributed between the two levels of governments, with Part 2 providing functions that fall under the counties. The committee, chaired Senator Samuel Poghisio, argues that Senate plays an important role in making laws in the country, hence, excluding it from scrutinising statutes. This, they say, denies counties the “right to be represented. ” National Assembly, according to the Constitution, is the only House tasked with oversight of the national government. Article 96 of the Constitution limits the Senate’s work to representation of counties by protecting their interests, considering matters and making relevant laws concerning them. The committee’s proposal comes in the wake of intense push within the political circles to amend various provisions in the 2010 Constitutions through a referendum. Political commentator Edward Kisiang’ani, for instance, has supported the referendum but holds that enhancing checks and balances among Parliament, the Judiciary and the Executive should be part of proposals for the popular vote initiative. “The referendum should also be about giving more powers to Senate to make final decisions on all National Assembly bills,” Kisiang’ani wrote on his Twitter handle. “Besides, the referendum should be about making the Senate the Upper House so it can be used as a tool of equal representation to diminish the evil dispensation of tyranny ofnumbers.” National Assembly Majority leader Aden Duale yesterday faulted the bid by the Senate to have similar powers as the National Assembly to ratify treaties. Duale, who spoke to Star on the phone, told the senators to “join the clamour” for constitutional reforms for Senate to have more powers by including such proposals to the anticipated referendum. “If you want to give Senate more powers, you cannot start amending the Acts of Parliament. You need to put in the referendum questions. The current Senate is not like the US one, which is the Upper House,” he said. He challenged the senators seeking more oversight powers to get elected as National Assembly members in the 2022 polls, if they don’t pursue their demands through a referendum.            