Muthaiga’s Greg Snow, winner of the second leg of the Safari Tour golf series, leads a strong field of 42 professionals and one amateur, to the third leg of the series starting today to Wednesday at the Limuru Golf Club. Snow is expected to renew his rivalry with the hard hitting Dismas Indiza at the scenic par 72 Limuru golf course. The two needed a three-hole playoff round to separate them at Vet lab, before Snow held his nerve to be crowned winner. The field of 43 also includes Nuru Molel of Tanzania and Uganda’s Philip Kasozi, who played in the second leg and his counterpart Abbey Bagalana, who will be making his first appearance in the series. Speaking ahead of the tournament, the Kenya Open Golf Championship tournament director, Patrick Obath, gave an update on the confirmed golfers and preparations ahead of the tournament. “So far, we have over 42 confirmed professionals, among them two entrants from Uganda and one from Tanzania. We are excited to once again host players from the region and look forward to a highly competitive five days of Golf.” Indiza currently leads the seven-leg series after back-to-back runner up finishes in Nyali and Vetlab, earning him 38 points—three ahead of Snow. David Wakhu, who won the opening leg in Nyali, rounds up the top three, all who have confirmed their participation for the third leg. Other professionals set to play include; CJ Wangai, Justus Madoya, Jacob Okello, Kopan Timbe, Riz Charania, David Opati and Nelson Simwa among others. Obath expressed his delight in how the series is playing out this far and the level of competition on display. “We at the Kenya Open Golf Limited are very excited to see how the series is playing out and the level of competition. We have so far seen two different winners in the two legs and we can already see the growth in the general standard of play, which was our aim when we started the series.” The Safari Tour, which has been organized by the Kenya Open Golf Limited, is aimed at preparing Kenyan pro golfers for the 2019 Kenya Open Golf Championship.