Senators on Friday passed a motion to compel NTSA to introduce stiffer regulations for boda-boda riders. The motion by nominated senator Sylvia Kasanga seeks to push the authority to table a report within 90 days outlining short and long-term strategies to halt rising cases of road carnage involving motorcycle riders. Senators said lack of implementation of existing policies has led to the carelessness of a majority of riders thus putting lives of passengers at risk. "Aware that motorcycle transport services have been rapidly embraced throughout the country leading to several challenges including a rise in road accidents involving motorcycle riders, unlawfulness, insecurity and road congestion, the senate resolves that the ministry of transport identify strategies to enforce NTSA (Operation of Motorcycles) Regulations," read the order paper. It further stated,"Cognizant that the National Transport and Safety Authority (Operation of Motorcycles) regulations that came into force on January 1, 2016 have not adequately addressed the challenges associated with the high numbers of motorcycles as a mode of transport, NTSA in collaboration with county governments,develop programs to sensitize and educate members of boda- boda associations and the public on the laws regulating motorcycle operations". While supporting the motion, majority leader Kichumba Murkomen said the lawlessness in the sector has robbed off passengers their dignity. "This is a sector that we must create a special section of the NTSA regulations to monitor, license and oversight all boda boda business. We are not against their business but discipline must be enhanced in this sector," he said. Read: Worry over boda boda accidents Also read: NTSA asked to tighten boda boda rules to curb accidents Senator Enock Wambua said there should be a proper training and procedure of issuing licenses. "Speaker, there must be a specific regulation specifying what these boda bodas carry. Are they licensed to carry passengers, goods or cows, goats and furniture?," Wambua posed. Senator Mohamed Faki said although boda bodas have eased mode of transport across the country, they have done more harm to the economy. "They have even turned to be smuggler and robbers due to indiscipline. They are now the perpetrators of crime and unless NTSA fast tracks the implementation of the rules, we might end up having a generation suffering from broken limbs and head injuries," he said. In the 2017 NTSA's road accidents and fatality report indicated motorcycle riders had constituted 18 per cent of the fatalities on Kenyan roads with pillion passengers constituting 7 per cent. Also See: We are provoked by motorists: Fiery rage of boda boda riders Click here for the latest political news