President Uhuru Kenyatta is expected to attend the burial of Benga artiste Joseph Kamaru, who will be laid to rest tomorrow at his home in Kaharati, Murang’a county. The popular Kikuyu musician died at 79 years old on October 3 at MP Shah Hospital in Nairobi, where he was receiving treatment. In his condolence message, the Head of State said Kamaru used his talent as a musician to address morality, while giving the best in entertainment. “It was a blessing for us as a country to have had such a talented artiste, who played a big role in promoting the Kenyan brand of music. Indeed, we will miss his educative music, which was unique in many aspects.” Speaking to Word Is, Maina Kamaru, the son, said his father wanted them to be united as a family. “Mzee was a person who used to emphasise on unity and peace. He always advocated that, and that was the message he relayed to us even at the end.” Kamaru had two wives, five children and grandchildren, and some of his heirs are taking up his talent in music. The singer, who has been ailing for a long time, was at one time visited by Deputy President William Ruto and musicians such as Ben Githae, who is very close to the family. Githae acknowledged Kamaru’s contribution to the music industry and said he was a pioneer for growth within the industry. “Kamaru was an icon at the Mt Kenya region and he has told us (artistes) many times to remain united as well as other upcoming artistes, same way he mentored so many of us. Personally he was my mentor. He brought me up musically,” he said. In April, Kamaru was admitted at a Nairobi hospital, though his ailment was a closely guarded secret. Rumours of his death hit social media a few days later but were quickly dismissed. A few weeks later, it was revealed that his family was unable to foot his hospital bill, prompting some MPs to fundraise for his medical treatment. President Uhuru Kenyatta later settled his hospital bill. Artistes have organised themselves to present a song together during his burial.