National women’s volleyball team will be out to give a good account of themselves when they cross swords with former champions Brazil at the ongoing FIVB World Championship in Hamamatsu Arena, Japan today. Coincidentally, both teams — who had a rest day yesterday — lost their respective third pool ‘D’ matches on Monday with Kenya going down to Puerto Rico 3-0 ( 25-20, 25-22, 25-15 ) while Brazil were shocked by Serbia thanks to 3-0 ( 25 - 21 , 25 - 18 25 -19 ) loss. But the Brazilian head into today’s match favourite if the 2017 FIVB ranking is anything to go by where they are placed fourth ,while Kenya are placed at position 33. However, Brazil have won two of their three matches so far to record six points while the East Africans have won one out of their three clashes played so far. Middle blocker Triza Atuka said it will be far-fetched to even try to match up to their opponents but insisted they will be out to play a good game without pressure. Atuka who captains the Kenya Volleyball Federation league champions, Kenya Pipeline, said they are facing a wounded Brazilian side, eager to erase memory of their shock defeat to Serbia. “It will be a lie if I say we will match up to the Brazilians . They are way ahead of us as far everything concerning the sport is concerned. Therefore, we just want to go out there enjoy every bit of the match and play without pressure and see what happens,” said the middle blocker. “Just like us, they unexpectedly lost to Serbia in a match they were tipped favourites and they will want to erase that as quickly as possible. But that does not mean we will not give our best, this is sport and anything can happen .” Brazil captain Natalia Pereira said they have to be at their best in their remaining matches saying: “Our defence did not work well and we lost our concentration. We must change our mind in the next matches.” Africa’s other participant, Cameroon will line up against Japan today in their Pool ‘A’ match. Cameroon has three points from three matches.