Searches conducted at the home and offices of formner Nairobi governor Evans Kidero were lawful, EACC has said. The Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission seized documents and properties during the raids. In an affidavit, the agency through lawyer Mulki Umar, said Kidero will be afforded an opportunity to defend himself at the appropriate time. It said the former governor was unfairly trying to use the court to defeat efforts to investigate "well founded allegations of corruption and economic crime." Umar said the commission has mandate to investigate corruption, economic crimes and related offences and to make appropriate recommendations to the DPP . His affidavit is a reply to a suit by Kidero challenging search warrants obtained by the commission. Kidero said the terms of the warrant are vague, open-ended and have been abused. He said EACC was on a fishing expedition “in a desperate bid to look for incriminating evidence” against him, his family and employees. Umar asked the court to be cautious not to interfere with the commissions mandate. “In carrying out an inquiry of such nature, it was imperative the commission had to access Kidero’s premises in order to establish the truth or otherwise of allegations of corruption and economic crimes," the affidavit says. Read: [VIDEO] Kidero picked up by EACC at his Muthaiga home He said the procedure for applying search warrants is not regulated. In 2016, the commission received allegations of misappropriation of public funds and illegal acquisition of wealth by Kidero while he served as managing director of Mumias Sugar Company and as Nairobi governor. It was alleged Kidero colluded with City Hall and Mumias officials to defraud the two institutions huge sums of money. Preliminary investigations show Kidero received tens of millions of shillings in different currencies into his several bank accounts. He also acquired assets in Nairobi and elsewhere. In January 2016, EACC got warrants to investigate Kidero’s account at Family Bank. Statements reflected large cash deposits on a regular basis "signalling money laundering". “Upon analysis, it was noted that between January 27, 2011 and December 31, 2015, Kidero received Sh317 million in cash deposits alone,” the affidavit says. Notably, Umar says the account also reflected a sum of shs 200 million equivalent to slightly over US $ 2 million at the prevailing exchange rate which amount was apparently deposited in a fixed deposit account. Besides, the account reflects other funds invested in fixed deposit accounts. Also Read: Kidero reveals wealth, fights EACC charges Kidero had also filed a petition in 2016 challenging warrants obtained by the commission to investigate its bank accounts. The petition was later dismissed which paved way for the commission to continue with its investigations in the matter. “Investigations so far revealed that Kidero had amassed unexplained wealthy which is not commensurate to his known legitimate source of income and that to complete the investigations it was necessary to search Kidero’s business, offices and residential premises,” said Umar. Click here for the latest political news