Officials in the Lands ministry are colluding with cartels to grab public land, Uasin Gishu governor Jackson Mandago has said. Most public land in Eldoret and elsewhere has been stolen, making it difficult to expand and build facilities such as hospitals, the governor said. He said cartels were still thriving at Ardhi House in Nairobi where officers are assisting individuals to steal land. “We are seeking assistance from Lands CS [Farida] Karoney to weed out cartels that have seized most public plots,” Mandago said. The governor was speaking in Kesses constituency yesterday after addresses by  CS Karoney and Speaker of the National Assembly Justin Muturi. They presided over issuing 2,000 title deeds to the Ogiek community at Cheboror in Uasin Gishu. Mandago said many public projects have stalled because of prolonged disputes over grabbed land. “This is a big challenge as we purpose to build hospitals and other facilities, yet people move to court with documents of ownership — obviously obtained illegally,” Mandago said. Karoney said the ministry is digitising the process of titling. She said this will greatly reduce land grabbing and illegal titling. Karoney said the state will issue 350,000 title deeds across the country in the next five months. After that more titles will be issued, she said. The state has issued more than two million title deeds in five years. Karoney said those who deserve land ownership documents will receive them. She said the government is committed to improving the lives of Kenyans who have lived for years on their land without ownership documents. The Ogiek in Uasin Gishu were settled on land hived off from Cheboror public forest. They were allocated part of the forest by President Daniel Moi but were never given titles. “I’m happy that the Ogiek community has finally been given title deeds, which they can use as security for loans,” Karoney said. Many have fallen victim to the vice especially cases where two title deeds being issued for one pieceof land. The ministry of Lands has been at the center of key corruption cases  associated with land with various ministers in the docket unable to fix the menace over the years.