Voters in Migori county will today troop to polling stations to elect their third senator in a by-election that has attracted six candidates. ODM’s Ochillo Ayacko is facing stiff challenge from youthful aspirant Eddy Oketch who has mounted a big campaign to fill the void left by Ben Oluoch Okello who died in June. Other candidates are Peter Jobando, Samwel Otieno, Solomon Hodo and Dickson Ogolla. The county has more than 388,000 voters spread across 826 polling centres. Voting will begin from 6am, with most public schools closed to pave way for the exercise. Yesterday, IEBC commissioner Abdi Guliye and Nyanza regional police commander Leonard Katana held a security meeting before the start of distribution of election materials to polling centres. Distribution was coordinated from Maranatha Hall, with preparations also complete at the county tallying centre at Migori TTC. “The voting will run smoothly because all poll materials have been distributed and preparations finalised,” Guliye said. He said all materials were sealed and coded properly, with agents of the six candidates expected to re-confirm that at polling centres before voting starts. “Migori residents should come out in large numbers and choose their candidate. We expect a peaceful exercise because security has been enhanced,” Guliye said. Two police officers have been deployed to man each polling centre. Katana said the campaigns have been peaceful. He said slight incidences of insecurity were comfortably contained. “All voters should leave the polling centres and wait for results at home. We’re telling those planning to hire youths to cause chaos that we are on high alert,” Katana said. Earlier, county police boss Joseph Nthenge said officers will make sure order and peace is maintained during the by-election. “We have mapped out the hotspots and our deployment in those areas will be different,” he told reporters. Some of the officers have been brought in from neighbouring counties to strengthen security. RUTO LINK Campaigns were concluded on Friday with ODM leader Raila Odinga campaigning for Ayacko at a mega rally held at the Migori County Stadium. A former minister and a seasoned politician, Ayacko said he expects to win by a landslide. But Gicheru, running on the Federal Party of Kenya ticket, said he will win the contest. Oketch addressed a rally at the same venue, just minutes after the ODM leaders left. Supporters of the two candidates have constantly clashed with ODM leaders, claiming Oketch was being funded by DP William Ruto. “Ruto is not funding my campaigns. I’m being supported by fellow youths and well-wishers who believe in emerging young leaders. The ODM lawmakers are dragging in Ruto’s name because they are very scared of my rising popularity,” Oketch said. On Saturday, ODM legislators from Migori organised their agents to be posted to polling stations to monitor the election. Only Kuria West MP Mathias Robi of Jubilee Party and Governor Okoth Obado support Oketch.