I was only eight years old when the Roll Back Malaria (RBM) partnership was created but I had already suffered from malaria several times. I grew up in France but as a child, I would visit relatives in Benin. Despite taking malaria prophylaxis and sleeping under bed-nets, I caught malaria often. The sickness is worse than anything I have ever experienced. Coming from an affluent background and residing in the economic capital of Cotonou, meant I was diagnosed quickly and had easy access to medicine; my recovery was therefore quick and without consequence. I did not form one of the statistics of a child under five that still commonly dies from this preventable disease. Those trips to Africa inspired me to study science as a means to finding solutions to pressing social challenges; namely health and nutrition. Malaria has a clear link with the former but a less well-recognised one to the latter. With 216 million cases and half a million deaths reported annually, malaria is primarily a health issue, however, there are significant consequences that go beyond the sickness it causes. Malaria is a predominantly rural disease and mosquitoes need the same three elements required for productive agriculture – heat, water and people. The 500 million smallholder farmers, responsible for 80 per cent of the food consumed in developing countries, are some of the most at risk and the consequences profound. Farmers suffering from malaria cannot tend to their crops, provide food for their family or use the surplus to create an income, further reducing their ability to afford medical treatment. It is a vicious circle in which disease flourishes - the poverty trap in all its might! But the necessity to ensure sustainable food supply goes further than the needs of the individual farmers. It is of global importance. By end of the century, it is estimated that there will be an additional 4 billion people on Earth and 3 billion of them will be in Africa. The continent must therefore quadruple its agricultural productivity to feed itself and ensure economic and social stability both internally and internationally. Eliminating malaria has a role to play; according to a recent study, a potential 3.8 billion agricultural working days could be saved if malaria was eradicated by the year 2040. I work with Bayer in Ivory Coast, where 65 percent of the land is agricultural and where malaria is highly prevalent. My work involves bringing malaria prevention to the smallholder communities in the form of insecticide-based vector control solutions; the most efficient and cost effective means to prevent the disease today. Indeed, 4 in every 5 of the 663 million cases averted since 2000 have been thanks to interventions such as treated bed nets or Indoor Residual Spraying (IRS) of houses. Bed-nets are a highly effective and well-known tool but face challenges related to human behaviour, for example, in times of hot weather people often choose not to sleep under nets. IRS, while challenging to apply at scale, is effective when well implemented. With the support of the Ministry of Health, we are working with the cocoa cooperatives on an initiative to train those responsible for applying crop protection products so that they are qualified to perform IRS in the temporary camps where agricultural workers live. The objective is empowerment, enabling communities to protect themselves against malaria and in turn to potentially increase their yields and economic well-being. Running for only four months, the cooperatives are already experiencing a drop in the number of mosquitoes. We now need to establish a system to measure the impact of IRS on the number of malaria cases amongst the farm workers – something easier said than done in some of the remotest areas of the world. More than ever before, the agriculture and public health sectors are understanding that sustainable malaria prevention and a reliable food supply go hand in hand. At the World Malaria Summit this year leading agricultural companies, including Bayer, signed the “Zero by 40” declaration to continue the research, development and supply of vector control solutions to eradicate malaria by 2040. This joint commitment has been made in the same spirit of collaboration that inspired the establishment of the RBM partnership 20 years ago. Since then over seven million lives have been saved thanks to increased international investment and coordinated action. We need to build upon the learnings of the last two decades to ensure that the RBM anniversary in 20 years to come is not only the celebration of a date in time but the celebration of malaria eradication across Africa.  Member of the Environmental Science business unit within Bayer’s Crop Science Division