Kenya and its co-hosts Canada and Japan will next month host the first global conference on the sustainable blue economy. Some of the key objectives are to have a blue economy that harnesses the potential of oceans, seas, lakes and rivers to improve the lives of the people in developing states; and leverages the latest innovations, scientific advances and best practices to build prosperity, while conserving our waters for future generations. Blue economy is an emerging concept that encourages better stewardship of ‘blue’ resources, underpinning the importance of climate change, and the wellbeing of the people. It is, however, not the first time Kenya is showing interest in this area at the international level. This was one of the areas highlighted in the Vision 2030. It is also in line with African Union Agenda 2063 Aspiration 1 and the sustainable development goal 14. In its attempt to strengthen its economy and seek new ventures, Kenya has diversified into this area. According to the Kenya Institute for Public Policy Research and Analysis, fisheries account for 0.5 per cent of the GDP and employs at least two million Kenyans through fishing, fish processing and boat making and repair activities. There are thousands other employed indirectly. There is economic potential in this sector, given that, according to Kippra, Kenya has a maritime territory of 230,000 square kilometres, and a distance of 200 miles offshore, which they equate to 31 of the 47 counties. Unfortunately, however, the potential in this area has not been exploited well to benefit Kenyans living in these areas. In September 2016, President Uhuru Kenyatta established the Department of Fisheries and Blue Economy in the Ministry of Agriculture. However, not much has been seen on the ground. And while in a globalised world international trade should be allowed, it ought also to be controlled to protect domestic producers, in this case fishermen. It is public domain that residents and leaders from Nyanza, the Coast and Naivasha, Kenya’s leading fish production areas, have protested against flooding of Kenyan market with Chinese fish. And only on Wednesday that a fisherman in Homa Bay was stuck in Lake Victoria’s water hyacinth for three days appealed for his rescue. Last year, a Tanzanian vessel stuck in water hyacinth in Lake Victoria at the port of Kisumu on February 14. Due to this weed, transport, fishing and tourism sectors in counties around Lake Victoria are incurring heavy losses. So, going by the objective of this conference — improve the lives of the people in developing states — it is my hope that solutions to these problems, among others, will be sought.  Kibii comments on current affairs