Some 2,000 squatters in Thika will get title deeds for land they claim former President Moi gave them to appreciate their support in the 1992 first multiparty election. The squatters, under the Maasai Village Self–Help Women Group, have battled to gain official ownership of the land for 26 years. The land measures 356 acres and is located in Kianjau. Documents show the parcel still belongs to the government. The squatters’ efforts to acquire titles for the land have been fruitless, until now. The group had approached the defunct provincial administration many times for assistance. On May, 4, 2016, then Thika West deputy county commissioner Tom Anjere wrote to the Lands principal secretary requesting him to expedite the issuance of title deeds to the squatters. However, despite the letter, nothing happened. The squatters did not give up and in March, they convened a crisis meeting where they unanimously resolved to write to the Lands ministry. Group chairman Ibrahim Woche on March 22 wrote to the ministry asking upon Cabinet Secretary Farida Karoney to fast-track the issuance of title deeds. "The squatters have been living on the said parcel of land which they acquired with the blessings of the government," reads part of the letter. Woche in the letter said the squatters have been remitting land rates for years to the defunct Thika municipality and Kiambu government. The letter seems to have yielded fruit as the matter was immediately taken over by the National Land Commission. NLC immediately wrote to Kiambu county executive member incharge of Land inquiring about the parcel. Land CEC J.M.Maina in a response to NLC on April 13 said the county had no objection to squatters being settled on the land. "The said property is characterised by informal structures which, if not checked, may result to slumisation. The current ownership status is varied and unclear and as such proper planning and formalisation will ensure optimal land use and security of tunes. We therefore have no objection to the formalisation process,” reads the letter. Kiambu county NLC coordinator Berinda Akello also in a letter to the commission noted the process of formalisation was started many times, including by the titling centre, but was often got abandoned midway. Akello said it would be prudent for the commission to facilitate the process to its conclusion as land subdivision would enable proper planning so the requisite government agencies will surrender the land. "To this end, the county office does not have any objection in relation to this application for(ownership) a lease certificate/title deed," read part of the letter. The squatters now have a reason to smile after NLC officials led by the director of land administration Mercy Njamwea recently toured the land on a fact finding mission. Njamwea promised the squatters the commission has taken up the matter and called for patience as NLC embarks on the process to surveying and proper subdivision. 