The Inspector General of Police Joseph Boinnet will abolish 12 top positions in the police service to execute the new reforms. It is part of the wider changes that will affect 105, 553 officers in the National police service drwan from the Kenya Police Service and the Administration police service. “Kenya police will provide 36, 680 officers while their counterpart in AP will provide 24, 572 officers to merge and form the new general duty Kenya police service,” says the merger guidelines obtained by the Star. Boinnet started executing the new guidelines after President Uhuru Kenyatta launched them at the Kenya School of government last month. The reforms intend to professionalize the police service, improve the working conditions and merge the AP and KPS. “Ranks will be rationalized and rearranged. Everyone will fit within the new hierarchy of command. Yes, all the commander positions will be redistributed according to merit,” the pack says. The positions to be abolished include the regional Administration Police Service, Kenya Police Service, and Directorate Criminal Investigations (DCI) Commanders. Boinnet will also do away with county coordinating commander from the Kenya police, administration police, directorate criminal investigations and the administration police sub-county commanders. Others are the DCI Sub County commander, KPS Officer Commanding Police Divisions (OCPD) District Administration Police Commander (DAPC) and APS Ward Commander. “This paves way for the creation of the positions of regional Police Commander, County Police Commander, Sub County Police Commander and the Officer in charge Police Station (OCS) who will be the Ward Commander in charge of a Police Station, posts and patrol Bases,” the guideline reads. The Kenya police service (64,252 officers) formed after the AP and regular police merger will now have 80, 773 officers supported by two units-the GSU (10,804) and Directorate of Criminal Investigations (5,717 officers). Read: No officer will lose his job over reforms, Boinnet tells police The APS will be made up of units comprising a team of 24,780 officers. The units are Critical Infrastructure Protection Unit (8,280), Rapid Deployment Unit (4,000), Border Patrol Unit (6,000) ), APS Stock Theft Prevention Unit (5,000) and the Administration Police Training College (1,500). Former APS will be allowed to join the Directorate of Criminal Investigations after the talent is spotted by KPS General Duty. However, other members of the AP Units will be debriefed and deployed to the general duty just like GSU does. “Also one can be absorbed in other command responsibility as appropriate,” says the new guidelines. “The uniform will change partially.” Officers’ house allowances will be categorized into three groups; Nairobi County, the 5 Counties Cluster (Mombasa, Kisumu, Nakuru, Meru and Uasin Gishu) and other counties. They will be Sh 18,124 Sh 13,124 and Sh 8,124 Per month respectively. The police house allowance will be higher than the civilians. Those living in police houses are required to vacate in 90 days after getting their first allowances. Dilapidated police lines, especially those in slums, will be demolished. Officers serving in police units will remain in the lines but pay a "modest rent". Boinnet said the reforms are aimed at enhancing synergy, complementation, clarity of command and teamwork among police officers. All officers from constables to the IG will wear uniforms of same colour and quality. The working dress remains deep blue. The navy blue one becomes ceremonial. The OCS will support the chief on a need basis. After serving the need, the police will revert to their post ready for debriefing, review of performance and proceed to the next assignment. Read: Reforms willl create accountability Also See: Officers free to resign, pursue other jobs in reforms – NPSC Click here for the latest political news