South Sudanese politician and former warlord Daniel Awet Akot has denied having known slain businesswoman Monica Nyawira. Awet demanded an apology from Daily Nation after the media house ran a story on how Monica allegedly made a fortune in Juba. "I do not know the late Monica Kimani, neither in person nor in name and in any other way imaginable." "I only heard about her name after the news of her death broke and entangled my name," Awet stated in his October 6. He further posed: "How can a person make a relationship be it business, personal or work with a person utterly unknown to him?" Monica hit the headlines after Citizen TV news anchor Jacque Maribe and her fiancé Joseph Irungu were arrested in connection with her murder on September 19. Read: Jacque Maribe, Joseph Irungu remanded for six more days He has also denied having met or interacted with Monica`s father Bishop Paul Ngarama, in Rumbek. "Therefore, the family connections and links that you alleged to have “helped the family accumulate wealth” is something I would like to be educated on." He said that he cannot help people he does not practically know and from what funds would he have used for them to gain the alleged financial wealth. In his protest letter to the Daily Nation, he termed it as an offence to be referred to as a warlord. He said that his record was crystal clear to the nation and people of South Sudan whose gallant sons and daughters led in countless liberation battles for motherland as one of the senior field commanders. "I never back-stabbed my people in any way hence calling me a warlord a term associated with unprincipled spent force militia commanders in military jargons is extremely insulting to say the least. You owe me a serious apology," he added. The General also denied that he owns property in Nairobi which was under the supervision of Monica. He has also denied that he is the deputy speaker of the South Sudan Legislative Assembly as he left the position in 2013. Read: DPP orders Maribe, Joseph Irungu charged with murder More on this: Maribe to face murder charge Click here for the latest political news