President Uhuru Kenyatta's announcement of universal healthcare as one of his Big
Four legacy projects was a thrilling moment for all of us who have wondered whether Kenya would ever have UHC in our lifetimes. But
there is the question of cost. It may be fine for Switzerland or Germany or the UK to
have some form of universal healthcare, but what about countries that are
not so rich. Can we really afford it? I
was told some years back that there are three Latin American countries which
could serve as examples for a country like Kenya. One of them, Venezuela, has since fallen off that list
because it is apparently in a great economic crisis. That
leaves Costa Rica and Cuba. A
close look at their operations yielded a major surprise in one of these
countries. Apparently,
the reason why Costa Rica can afford to provide free healthcare for all its
citizens is not restricted to the fact that it has an innovative grassroots
network of basic health providers. The real secret is that Costa Rica
has no army. All that money which other nations spend on their defence
forces goes into healthcare in Costa Rica. I'm not sure how this possible, but obviously this is not an
option for Kenya. Even now, after many years of fighting al Shabaab, we still read of improvised explosive devises blowing up soldiers on patrol. So
Cuba seems to offer the only example worth following. I am told Kenya used to have a system of medical service which
approximated what we have now in Cuba. That about 20 years ago, anyone graduating from medical school would
get a letter of employment even before their graduation
ceremony. But it would usually be a letter of employment sending you to a
distant and underserved part of the country. Certainly not Nairobi or Mombasa.
Mostly it would be to a really small town you had never heard of. But
if you persevered and remained in government service for at least two or three
years, you then qualified to apply for a master's degree in a medical field of your choice. To do this master's degree, you would be sent back to
Nairobi and attached to Kenyatta National Hospital. A
few years later, you could leave government service and begin to earn an
excellent income as a medical specialist. That
is what I gather happens in Cuba. Anyone who qualifies for medical school gets
the opportunity to study to be a doctor, and even to specialise. But thereafter
you have to serve your country or serve in a country that your government sends
you to, for some years. In
this way, Cuba has a very high ratio of medical experts to the
general population, and this is the key to its universal healthcare system. And Cuba also sends more
doctors to work in other countries more than any other nation. The 100 Cuban
doctors currently working in Kenya, are just a small percentage of the 2,000
Cuban doctors who have been deployed in Africa. Indeed,
Cuba has the largest medical school in the world,
where at any one time about 20,000 medical students undergo training. This
may well be an example worth following, if Kenya
is to get universal healthcare.