Embakasi East MP Babu Owino and visiting Ugandan lawmaker Robert Kyagulanyi alias Bobi Wine have launched a "Youth for Africa" movement. They said the movement's key objective will be to fight for freedom of "millions of oppressed people across Africa". Speaking during a youth rally in Jacaranda Grounds in Embakasi East, Nairobi, the two called upon the youth to stand up and fight for their space in politics. Wine said that he will continue to fight the injustice and dictatorship in Uganda further calling on Kenyans to unite to end any form of oppression. "We do not come asking for guns as we do not want to kill anyone. We come to ask for your brotherhood," he told a charged crowd on Saturday. "When there is injustice and dictatorship in Uganda, its everywhere. When something bad happens in Kenya, it’s a great concern for Uganda and vice versa," Wine said. Wine shot to fame after his detention and 'torture' by Ugandan authorities following violence during the Arua municipality by-election. Read: Bobi Wine arrested on arrival in Uganda from US, police deny claim Speaking at the same forum, Babu said that they will offer leadership to the continent's young people and ensure their participation in decision making. "We'll no longer stand outside the door peeping in. We want our seat at the table of governance and policy making," the first time lawmaker said. Babu said that they have started talks with like-minded youth leaders across Africa in a bid to bring the desired change. He said they have reached out to South Africa's Julius Malema and Zimbabwe's Nelson Chamisa with a view to building a momentum for the change. The MP lamented marginalisation of young people saying their being treated as second class citizens across Africa is enough. "From today, we will take charge of our destiny. We will no longer seek approval and ask for permission for what is rightfully ours, but demand our fair share." Also read: Bobi Wine flies out of Uganda for treatment - lawyers Click here for the latest political news 