Cost of power for domestic and Small Commercial Consumer has been reduced by Sh2 and Sh5 Kilowatts per hour respectively. Energy Regulatory Commission Director General Pavel Oimeke on Wednesday said the charge for domestic consumers will now retail at Sh10/KWh down from Sh12KWh. The charges are for consumers who spend 99 units and below within a specific period of time. Charges for 100 units and above have been maintained hence customer in this category will not have any changes in their current bill. This means that for every 99 units bought, consumers will be able to save slightly above Sh400 a move likely to affect Kenya Powers financial books. This even as the power distributor issued a profit warning for the year ended June 2018 last week by over 25 per cent as compared to the previous year. The new rates are effective tomorrow, November 1 and will be applied until the end of the current financial year which ends in June 30, 2019. Small consumers will now be charged Sh10 KW/h from Sh15 KW/h. This will see their bills reduced by 31 per cent. The reduction comes a week after President Uhuru Kenyatta ordered a reduction in the cost of electricity for the SMEs sector, which employs 75 per cent of the national workforce, within one month. "This amendment is aimed at increasing the share of manufacturing, food security and Nutrition, Universal healthcare and Housing inline with the big four Agenda," Oimeke said. He further attributed the move to Increasing complaints from the public on power bills Post July 2018. On July 1, the regulator had announced a new tariff band, reducing the lifeline threshold from 50 KWh to 10KWh and removed the fixed charges of Sh150 for all the customer categories. The review did not work out well for Small businesses as most of them were still charged together with middle-class household consumers. However, in the reviews made the lifeline threshold was reviewed upwards from the current 10Kwh to 100Kwh. ERC noted that this increase is meant to accommodate at least 5.7 million customers from households in Urban, PPeri-urban and rural areas. "With the threshold for the lifeline category set at 100KWh, the commission believes that atleast 91.73 percent of domestic customers have been captured majorly from low income household." Data from ERC shows that there are currently 6.25 million domestic consumers. On Small commercial consumers, the regulator said the reduction in cost is intended to affect over 67.3 per cent of the current 177,089 customers. Read: ERC: Petrol price down by Sh1.06, diesel and kerosene to cost more Also read; No cartel is bigger than government, ERC tells illegal fuel dealers Click here for the latest political news