In his first speech at the United Nations General Assembly in September 2018, US President Donald Trump asserted the sovereign right of all nations to forge their own destinies and determine what is good or bad for their citizens. That speech must have sounded like music to autocrats and other criminals in power across the world. The reason I remember that speech is because as soon as the details of the brutal and rather clumsy killing of journalist Jamal Khashoggi at the hands of Saudi Arabian intelligence personnel started leaking, Trump repeatedly stated that the Washington Post columnist was merely a US resident, but a citizen of Saudi Arabia. In plain language Trump was simply saying that horrible as the apparent murder of Khashoggi was, the Americans’ reaction should take into account the lower premium in countries such as Saudi Arabia for the lives of their deviant citizens. It is precisely for this reasoning that even before conclusion of investigations Trump vowed that the murder of Khashoggi will not affect the sale of American advanced weaponry to Saudi Arabia. It looks to me that Trump is the personification of the ugly face of capitalism in which all human and geopolitical relations are viewed and valued in monetary terms. In this scheme of things, leaders of fabulously rich nations such as Saudi Arabia expect the world to acknowledge their sovereign right to deal with their citizens because the world cannot afford to offend them through over-reaction. Yet something tells me that Khashoggi’s assassination will count for more than the death of just one more Saudi dissident. Curiously the size of the assassination squad flown to Istanbul to abduct and kill Khashoggi is roughly the same as that of the Saudi terrorists dispatched by Osama in 2001 during the 9/11 terror attacks. In the wake of those terrorist attacks security forces across the world got a blank cheque to do all that was necessary to fight real and suspected terrorists. In the name of fighting terrorism human rights became tradeable goods liable to be trampled by security considerations whenever necessary. This indeed is the global climate that explains frequent reports of disappearance and execution of suspected terrorism suspects in Kenya. Since terrorism cannot be sustained without some ideological grievance, security forces have not succeeded in conquering terrorism through military means and the theatre of operation keeps shifting from one Muslim country to the other — Palestine, Iraq, Afghanistan, Somalia, Libya, Syria, Egypt, Iran, Yemen, Lebanon and others — alongside geopolitical alliances in which the USA and Israel are invariably involved. Interestingly all the main Islamic terrorist organisations are founded by Sunni Muslim extremists but somehow Shia Muslim Iran is always projected as the main sponsor of Islamic terrorism. As in George Orwell’s novel 1984, the fight against terrorism has become permanent warfare and a mainstay of the defence industry, alias industrial production of weaponry. In the 21st century the villains in the anti-terrorism war have ranged from the Taliban, al Qaeda, Hamas, Hezbollah, Isis to Iran. During the combined war against Isis and the Syrian civil war, which is winding down, Russia and the US have engaged each other through proxies and finally an unusual alliance between the US, Israel and Saudi Arabia has emerged. Its goal is to prevent Iran from harvesting the spoils of these wars. To do so, Iran must remain the eternal villain and pariah in this unending anti-terrorism warfare, although it seems to have played a pivotal role in vanquishing both Isis and al Qaeda, the premier Sunni terrorists’ organisations. In this scenario Iran is the true reason why the US is averse to over-reaction towards the murder of Khashoggi, however embarrassing the Istanbul operation has turned out to be. In retrospect the Saudis could have spared the Americans all this embarrassment if only they had the foresight to consult their Israeli counterparts about smarter ways of accomplishing such a mission. In the end, because of the messy killing of Khashoggi the unholy trinity of Trump, Mohammed bin Salman and Benjamin Netanyahu will find it difficult to pursue some of their brazen geopolitical ambitions, and if the world is better for it, we should be grateful that Khashoggi did not die in vain. Constitutional lawyer kibemungai@yahoo.com   