As expected, Kenya women’s volleyball team succumbed to former champions Brazil 3-0 (25-13, 25-10, 25-16) in their fourth Pool ‘D’ match as the FIVB World Championship entered its fourth day yesterday at the Hamamatsu Arena, Japan. Following yesterday’s result, the East Africans must now win against Dominican Republic today and pray that Puerto Rico lose to Serbia in their last Pool’ D’ match to stand a chance of proceeding to the next round. On paper, on form Serbia and Brazil have booked their second round slots with 12 and 9 points respectively from four matches while Dominicans and Puerto Rico have six points each from four matches. Kenya have three points while Kazakhstan remain win-less. In Yesterday’s match the Kenya technical bench made two changes to the starting line-up, introducing Janet Wanja for Jane Wacu as Emmaculate Chemtai started in place of Violet Makuto who was moved to centre position to replace Triza Atuka who is unwell. Chemtai was the high scorer for Kenya with nine points while Natalia Pereira scored 12 points for the winners. The opening set was close before Brazil opened the gap with 11-7 lead. Brazil stepped up the pace, scoring at will as Kenya tried to put up a resistance but in vain. On several occasions, Kenyans lost points on attacks with their opponents too swift and accurate in their blocks. This saw a frustrated Kenyan side lose 25-13 in the first set. In the second set, Brazil quickly took a 8-2 advantage at the first TTO. The Kenyans once again played with great energy, but were unable to string together a series of points. Unforced errors were theior main undoing as Brazil build up a big lead. Makuto made a nice tap over the high block for a point, but it only reduced Kenya’s deficit to 13-4. Brazil clinically moved through the rest of the set, ultimately taking it 25-10. The final set mirrored the first two, as the Brazilians took control early 7-1 and 14-7 and never looked back. Even the noticeable Sharon Chepchumba powerful attacks would not stop the Samba girls who ran away with a 25-16 set win. Kenya coach Japheth Munala said: “We started well. We were supposed to challenge Brazil but they capitalised on our weakness in reception. We had no good combinations tonight. Maybe next time we meet we will play better.” Kenya’s captain Mercy Moim noted, “ Brazil is the best team in the world. We tried to control their serve, reception and attack but they were better. Our young players got some good experience from this match.” Pereira lauded Malkia Strikers, saying: “Kenyans have made a lot of progress. I admire them.”