Farmers will
have to wait longer to get fertiliser for this planting season due to
a delay in clearance at the port. This follows
introduction of new guidelines the Kenya Bureau of Standards on
fertiliser inspection in a move to curb fake fertiliser getting into
the country. Initially,
certification or inspection of fertiliser was done at the country of
origin but with the new regulations, KEBS will be required to certify
all the consignments again at the port of entry. This
according to Eustace Muriuki, Fertiliser Association of Kenya
chairman is causing a delay yet the planting season for the short
rains crops has already started in some parts of the country. “The
clearance process is longer, taking almost two months and importing
companies are paying millions of shillings daily as they wait for
clearance. Eventually farmers will bear the cost as this could
increase the price of the fertiliser in the market,” he said. He was
speaking on Wednesday during the Kenya Fertiliser Roundtable
Conference in Nairobi. Muriuki said
besides delay in clearance at destination ports, the fertiliser
industry has been faced with other constrains including price
distortions and lack of government's support to local fertiliser
manufactures. He said
use of fertiliser in Kenya was below 200,000 metric tonnes
annually before 1990 when it was liberalised but is now at 450,000 metric tonnes and has the potential of getting to one million metric tonnes. “To achieve
this, the government should consider subsiding all fertilizer imports
and setting retail prices, or subsidising fertiliser for only
small scale farmers with less than two acres of land or withdrawing
the subsidy program and purchasing cereals on timely basis and at
higher prices,” said Muriuki. Tim Njagi, a
researcher from Tegemeo Institute of Agricultural Policy and
Development- Egerton University said the fertiliser subsidy program
should be redesigned to make more impact to farmers and increase
productivity. “The
government should redesign the fertiliser subsidy program and invest
in the right people and the right objective. Providing the fertiliser
is not a guarantee that farmers are using it correctly. Most farmers
apply only one type of planting and another one for top dressing
fertiliser. But ideally, they should apply two types of fertiliser
for planting and two types of fertiliser for top dressing,” he
said.