Malindi MP Aisha Jumwa has criticised the media for the “unnecessary” publicity of her phone conversation with ODM leader Raila Odinga and reporting she has flip-flopped. She made news when she openly defied ODM and supported Deputy President William Ruto for President. Jumwa wondered why ‘watu wa magazeti’ (the press) are making it a big issue when she communicates with Raila on the phone. She expressed her displeasure about a newspaper story which said she had made a sudden U-turn to support Raila instead after a phone conversation. During a fundraising, Jumwa urged her supporters not to believe the stories because “they are a creation of the media which is in business of selling newspapers”. The fundraiser was held on Sunday at Family Alter Ministries Church Serengeti in Magarini constituency. Also present were Paul Katana (Kaloleni), Michael Kingi (Magarini), Christine Zawadi (Jubilee nominated senator) and Godfrey Otsotsi (nominated MP). Jumwa told Kenyans to read newspapers then “use them to wrap omena”. She said President Uhuru Kenyatta was right when he took issue with the media and told people to wrap meat using newspapers and throw them away after use as “they are full of propaganda”. “If we communicate with Raila on phone it’s not an issue to be communicated in the press. After reading the newspaper, fungia omena, tupa kando (wrap omena and throw it away),” she said. “It’s the business of watu wa magazeti (press people). They were given that talent, let them continue and we are on our own business.” The Malindi MP also said some bloggers in Kilifi county were frequently mentioning her in their WhatsApp group. Jumwa said she had no problem with trending both positively or negatively on social media because it makes her the most popular leader in the county. During the 2017 election campaign, Jumwa was a strong critic of Jubilee party and was a key opposition leader who went round the country urging Kenyans to reject it. As an ODM brigadier, Jumwa initiated many slogans that became popular including ‘mpaka kieleweke’ (until it’s understood). However, since her declaration of support for Ruto, Jumwa has earned other titles, among them ‘Mama radar’ for her swift switch from NASA to Jubilee to support Ruto. Jumwa defended her support for Ruto saying it was as a result of handshake between Uhuru and Raila.        