The clamour to amend the 2010 Constitution has been
entrenched in the 12th Parliament, as lawmakers jostle to draft proposed Bills
to reduce the number of legislative seats. Various lawmakers, mostly from the Jubilee Party, have
written to National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi, expressing interest to amendment the
Constitution. This is parallel to proposals championed by Thirdway Alliance
leader Ekuru Aukot and his Nasa leader Raila Odinga through referendum. MPs George Kariuki (Ndia), Caleb Kositany (Soy),
Kassait Kamket (Tiaty), Vincent Mogaka (West Mugirango) and Chris Wamalwa (Kiminini)
have proposed different Constitutional amendments. But speaking to the Star in his office, National
Assembly Majority leader Aden Duale laughed off the MPs’ efforts, terming them
as ‘gumzo mitaani’ (village gossip). Duale said writing letters to the Speaker would not
help in amending the law but through a structured procedure anchored in the
Constitution. “Writing letters to the Speaker over push for
Constitution amendment is totally different from proposing and drafting a Bill
printed by the government printer. Some people are even busy writing letters to
the Speaker seeking legalisation of marijuana,” the Garissa Town MP said. “I don’t want to be involved in reducing the number of
legislators. Those are what I call ‘gumzo mitaani’ (village gossip)". Kariuki, a first time MP, plans to table a
Bill that seeks to slash the number of counties from 47 to 12. He proposes the 12 counties be headed by provincial governors, and the 47 county assemblies
be scaled down to 12 provincial assemblies. The Ndia legislator wants two Senators, a male and
female, be elected from each of the 12 counties. Kositany has also written to Muturi, proposing the
scrapping off of the Senate, nominated MP and nominated MCA slots. He say the Bill will help
the country save Sh3 billion annually once the positions, "which
constitutes a heavy burden on the taxpayer", are done away with. “This is, therefore, to request you to kindly
authorise the legal services directorate to assist me in the formation of the
bill,” he says in his letter to the Speaker. Kamket drafted a Bill to amend the
Constitution and create the position of Prime Minister. The MP proposes the PM to have executive powers and be
the leader of government business. He says the proposed post would be filled by
an elected MP. The amendment would also allow
Parliament to provide the position of Prime Minister, the leader of the opposition, and members of the shadow Cabinet," he said. Kenya has had two Prime Ministers - at independence
and during the Grand Coalition Government, which was negotiated after the 2007
post-election violence. “The Bill seeks to amend the Constitution to limit
the President to a ceremonial role of Head of State and a symbol of national
unity,” Kamket says in the Bill. West Mugirango MP Vincent Mogaka is also pushing to have the number of Cabinet secretaries reduced to 22 in a bid to reduce the ballooning wage bill. The MP wants a change of name from Cabinet secretaries to Cabinet
ministers, and proposes they should be picked from Parliament. Mogaka  also seeks to have the
system of governance changed from the current presidential to a hybrid model. On his part, Kiminini MP Chris Wamalwa seeks to change the election
date from August to December. Nasa vehemently opposed the change of election date
before the last election. In the Constitution of Kenya (Amendment) Bill, 2018,
the Kiminini MP says the date should reflect the “unique circumstances and
tradition of Kenya”. He wants the date moved from the second Tuesday of
August in every fifth year to the third Monday of December. “The Bill seeks to introduce a new date for a
General Election that would be more favourable to Kenya’s circumstances,” the
Bill reads.  UHURU OPPOSES But the clamour for these proposed changes have
irked Duale, who said President Uhuru Kenyatta is against them, urging the
lawmakers to channel their energy to  enacting laws that support
the Big Four agenda. “Our members have the right to write to the Speaker
and even climb on top of any tree but Jubilee has party structures. We don’t
want MPs to use their legislative powers to shout and clamour. If and when
Jubilee will talk about constitutional amendments, the party leader will call
for a PG and we will have a discussion,” Duale said. “The brief I hold on behalf of the President is that
we have must implement the Big Four agenda and Parliamnet will have to
provide the necessary legislation in terms of budget and oversight. We signed a
social contract with the people of Kenya and that is why they gave us a second
chance.” However, Mvita MP Abdulswamad Nassir, who is
also the chairman of Public Accounts Committee, said the MPs pushing for
amendments are within the law. Nassir, however, said there is need to analyse the
intention of the proposals. “It is within their constitutional rights for MPs
and Kenyans, at large, to petition Parliament to dispose of certain
matters. But I think we need to find out the intention of these proposals as far as amending the Constitution is concerned,” he said. He called for the creation of a Prime Minister post, who
would represent government in Parliament. “We want a system of government with a
Prime Minister, who will respond to queries in the House. I am one of those who
are proposing and supporting a more accountable system of government vis-à-vis what others are talking about,” the ODM MP told the Star. Soin/Sigowet MP Kipsengeret Koros said the
amendments were unnecessary and irrelevant, adding that there was need to keenly
monitor management of public resources at the national and the grassroots
level. “Kenya is one of the richest countries in Africa but
we must manage our resources well. We have to come up with measures to
monitoring the funds channelled to our counties and ministries. Some ministries
have huge allocations than some counties,” Koros said. “Reducing legislative seats is not relevant for now.
We need more funds to be devolveds through the NG-CDF.” Calls to change the Constitution have resulted to sharp
differences within Uhuru’s Jubilee Party, leaving Parliament’s
leadership divided.  JUBILEE DIVIDED Aukot is pushing for a referendum to reduce the
number of legislators from the current 416 to 194. The National Assembly has 349 members  — MPs and Woman Representatives —, while the Senate has 67. Aukot say this will reduce the cost of
running Parliament from Sh36.8 billion to Sh5 billion per annum. He has also proposed that each of the 47 counties be
used as a single constituency unit for parliamentary elections. Raila has said the referendum would be
in line with his handshake deal with Uhuru. He said targeted changes are meant to fix some of
the longstanding issues, which the Constitution, in its present form,
cannot solve. “We agreed with the President that as soon as the [Building Bridges Initiative]
task force finishes collecting views across the country, the buck will stop
with the people through another vote,” Raila said. But Duale maintains  the law provides a clear
roadmap on how to amend the Constitution under Articles 256 and 257. “We had a referendum in 2010 and Kenyans proposed
for all these legislative positions. Eight years down the line, somebody cannot
wake up from his village and try to slash the number of legislators,” Duale
said. Majority whip Benjamin Washiali has differed with
Duale, arguing that the Constitution, as currently constituted, is expensive to
fund, sentiments that were echoed by nominated MP Maina Kamanda. “That is the way to go if we want to get Kenya back
on truck. Otherwise, we will continue blaming whoever becomes the President.
The truth is the Constitution is very expensive to fund,” Washiali told the
Star. “The aspect of winner takes it all should end.
Plotted leadership should be re-assessed. Functions of national and county
governments and their related budgets should be clarified.” Duale, however, said that Jubilee, led by Uhuru
and his deputy William Ruto, is against the law change. “As the leader of Majority in the National Assembly
and the official Jubilee spokesperson in the House, I have no
brief from my party leader, his deputy and the secretary general on any minimum
or maximum amendment to the Constitution,” Duale said. His remarks were backed by his
deputy and Kitutu Chache North MP, Jimmy Angwenyi. Senate deputy Speaker Kithure Kindiki argues that
referendum was crucial to shield Kenyans who have over the years been digging
deep into their pockets to avail huge chunks of money to government employees. But on his part, Senate Majority Leader Kipchumba
Murkomen said: “Those pushing for the review of the Constitution want to change
the form of leadership so that it can favour them in their political ambitions.
Perennial losers should stop dragging us into reviewing the constitution to
suit them”. Koros said the clamor for Constitutional change
pushed by non-MPs is meant for political relevance and not the best interest of
the country. National Assembly Budget and Appropriations Committee chairman and Kikuyu MP Kimani Ichung’wa said: “This push is just
championed by a few power-hungry individuals. The individuals are lying to
Kenyans that we are overrepresented, yet the main intention is to create plum
positions in government for the big boys”. “Referendum is not a priority for this country
because what Kenyans need right now is to have the cost of living lowered. As a
nation, we should focus on growing our economy.” 