Kenyans were early this week shocked to see our national team of amputees clad in yellow “Team Sonko” branded jerseys instead of the national colours. The Kenya national colours are red and green for most national teams. The team, which faced a lot of financial challenges in their quest to represent Kenya at the Amputee World Cup before Nairobi governor Mike Sonko (pictured) came to their rescue, won their match against the US and lost to Turkey in the Group B fixture in the ongoing 2018 Amputee World Cup in Mexico. Kenyans are now wondering how a national team can be so neglected to the extent of being funded by a person. If this is not utter discrimination, someone must be asleep on the job at the Sports ministry.  Is someone swindling citizens using the e-citizen digital payment system? Many Kenyans, especially those seeking to register businesses, are angry with the online platform managed by the National Treasury under CS Henry Rotich. Why, some users are asking, should the government charge users of the platform seeking approval of business names, for example? Applicants are required to pay as many times for the search service costing Sh150 before proceeding to registration, which costs Sh850. Users complain that the system rejects names several times without explanation — all the time demanding more cash. And while at it, why should it take days to get the details of company ownership on the digital platform? That’s what makes a country rank low in the “Ease of doing business” index.  One of the Rift valley counties is blessed to have a governor and a senator who are both holders of PhD and lecturers of the English language at that. Recent communication from the duo, however, has put their linguistic credentials to shame for endemic grammatical errors and plagiarism. A Mashujaa Day message from the governor used a quote from Nelson Mandela without acknowledging the late icon. The senator, in his message to this year’s examination candidates, lifted a quote from American author Nora Roberts too. Corridors does not expect anyone with the ‘Doctor’ appellation to their name to commit such intellectual offences.  A first-term MP from the South Rift has postponed his homecoming three times to suit the diary of Deputy President William Ruto. He finally deferred it when it became apparent that either the DP was not interested in attending the function or that his aide, who the MP was dealing with in the DP’s office, was playing games with him. The cancellation has been scorned by constituents who are questioning who between them and the DP mean more to the MP. Click here for the latest political news   