The Cabinet yesterday approved a memorandum from the Ministry of Youth and Public Service seeking to submit the National Youth Service Bill 2018 to the National Assembly. The National Youth Service Bill, 2018, contains a raft of measures aimed at strengthening the operations and management of the NYS, among them transforming the department into a body corporate. It seeks to align the NYS with the Big 4 agenda and Vision 2030 development blueprint. The proposed law aims to fix the weaknesses in the NYS structure that hinder its work. They include loopholes in the governance and monitoring aspects exploited by corrupt officers. The meeting was chaired by President Uhuru Kenyatta at State House, Nairobi, and attended by DP William Ruto. It also approved guidelines for implementation of the affordable housing programme, a key plank of the Big 4 Agenda. The guidelines address aspects such as financing, costing and design of the houses to ensure quality and affordability, as well as establishment of a level playground for public and private sector investors. The Cabinet was also briefed by the Education ministry on the level of preparedness by relevant agencies for the upcoming national exams — KCPE and KCSE. Candidates with special needs will be provided with adapted examination materials such large print exam papers for the partially blind and brailed exam papers for the totally blind. The Cabinet also endorsed the establishment of the Kenya Export Promotion and Branding Agency (KEPROBA) by merging the Export Promotion Council and the Brand Kenya Board. This is in line with an earlier presidential directive on the objective of the integrated National Exports Development and Promotion Strategy launched mid this year to grow exports at an average rate of 25 per cent annually. KEPROBA will be a one-stop shop for all trade promotions and branding activities covering local, regional and international engagements to eliminate duplication and ensure a uniform image of the country. The Cabinet approved a memorandum by the Treasury for the setting up of a framework for issuance of government support  measures. The policy is meant to standardise meaning, treatment and forms of government support measures. The framework will also establish a clear and predictable process for the management of financial risks and liabilities in government projects while improving confidence in decision-making and eliminating ambiguity. The new measures will promote the use of private-public partnerships as the preferred approach in the financing and delivery of projects. This will go a long way in the implementation of key projects off-budget in line with the President’s recent pronouncements. The President will lead a delegation of horticultural farmers and traders to China next month for the first Shanghai Import Expo during which a number of trade deals will be negotiated and sealed. Click here for
the latest political news