There are two major contending political forces in the coming election. On the one hand is the retiring President and his current ruling party, People's Party for Reconstruction and Democracy (PPRD). On the other had is the Felix Tshisekedi-led Union for Democracy and Social Progress (UDPS), which has advanced arrangements to lead a united opposition of six or so other parties against the ruling party. Felix Tshisekedi is the son of the late Etienne Tshisekedi, the doyen of opposition politics in the DRC dating back to the Mobutu years. Kabila is the son of the late Laurent-Desire Kabila, who took over from Mobutu after mass rebellion against that notorious regime. But the senior Kabila hardly lived to realize the expectations of the Congolese people. His son, in power for 17 years, has done no better. Traversing the vast territory of the Congo with messages of hope and national renewal under a programme to eradicate poverty, Felix and the UDPS realise that whatever good ideas they have for the democratic transformation of the Congo will only be implemented if they win the elections on December 23. To get the numbers a united opposition is vital. Fortunately, this is now almost a forgone conclusion as Felix has largely been accepted as the opposition candidate only awaiting to be formalised at a meeting to be held soon. Even if the opposition comes together, and people vote in their large numbers, there is no guarantee that all the votes cast by the opposition will be counted in their favour. Another incident of "vifaranga vya computa" could easily arise in the DRC. A major controversy has arisen between Kabila and his opponents over election laws, the voting process and the counting of votes. The constitution of the DRC states that voting is to be done manually, not electronically. Yet Kabila has insisted that the electronic method will be used in the coming elections, contrary to the stipulations in the constitution. Further, the voters’ register has not been compiled in line with the latest population figures, nor has it been made accessible to the political parties for inspection. The UDPS and all opposition parties have made it clear that all political parties must agree on these critical issues and sign a compact of approval for the electoral process and the "rules of the game" well before the elections are held. If this does not happen, then it is very unlikely that the opposition alliance will take part in the coming elections. This could easily open another period of internal conflict and unpredictable political instability in the DRC, a very unwelcome outcome in a country so much in need of peace and social progress. The 9th High-Level Meeting of the Regional Oversight Mechanism of the Peace, Security and Cooperation Framework for the Democratic Republic of the Congo and the region, in its communique from Kampala last week, "encouraged the Government of the DRC and all concerned national stakeholders to continue with their efforts to create conducive conditions for credible, inclusive and peaceful elections on 23 December." It is quite clear that as long as Kabila insists on disregarding the constitutional provisions for holding the elections, "concerned national stakeholders" (read 'the opposition') will hardly play ball. And that will definitely jeopardize the burning desire of the Congolese people to live in a united nation enjoying peace, security and democratic governance. It is worthwhile to appeal to this "Regional Oversight Mechanism" to take the issues the opposition is raising seriously and stop stating them in vague diplomatic language which may only succeed in camouflaging the real issues surrounding the difficult road to democratic transition in the DRC. Let us, therefore, make it crystal clear. In order to ensure free and fair elections in the DRC on December 23, it is important that the electoral process must conform to the constitution and the laws of the DRC. This requires that: 1. The voting, the counting and the transmission of the election results be done manually; 2. The voter register is fully vetted and verified by all political parties and the public; 3. The security of the electoral process is guaranteed by a legitimate mechanism of an "international guarantor" acceptable to all parties; 4. And hence the whole process acceptable as free, fair, transparent and legitimate. The trouble with Africa is that even when decisions are taken by such meetings as that held in Kampala by the Regional Oversight Mechanism, individual member states (read presidents) usually have their own interest, which quite often clash with common decisions arrived at. Even before the ink is dry on the so-called communique, presidents begin lobbying for the lopsided implementation to suit their peculiar interests. Very soon cold wars emerge among the leaders who are party to such declarations, and the noble aims of such declarations very quickly lost. Should this happen in the DRC this time round, voices of concern must be raised all over the Great Lakes region in defense of democracy in the DRC. Ever since the assassination of Patrice Lumumba, the legendary nationalist and Pan Africanist who led Congo to independence, this rich country has never known peace and good governance. The dictators who have ruled Congo have always survived on the chaos and underdevelopment of that nation. The UDPS has leaders focused on rescuing the DRC from the chaos and underdevelopment that has spelled backwardness for the Congolese, while other nations in the region make modest steps towards social progress. The pillage of the Congolese natural resources by multinationals and fly by night mineral merchants must come to an end in a properly governed DRC. This is the future that UDPS and its allies promise: Let the world give them a chance through free and fair elections. A properly governed DRC will play a major role in Africa's economic and social development. 