Western leaders yesterday welcomed President Uhuru Kenyatta’s directive to pay sugarcane farmers Sh2.6 billion owed by millers. The leaders said the move will encourage farmers to continue cane farming and ensure steady supply to millers. Operations of Mumias, Chemilil and Sony Sugar companies have been hurt by a severe shortage of raw materials due to poaching of cane by rival millers. Though Chemilil and Sony have resumed operations, Mumias milling plant has remained shut since April this year. The leaders, who spoke separately, are Kakamega senator Cleophas Malala, MPs Emmanuel Wangwe (Navakholo), Ayub Savula (Lugari), Bernard Shinali (Ikolomani), Godfrey Osotsi (nominated), Justus Kizito (Shinyalu) and Kakamega ANC youth leader Emmanuel Buchichi. The President met leaders from Western a month ago at State House, Nairobi, and discussed the revival of the sugar industry. Uhuru said payment of farmers’ arrears will be given priority. In his Mashujaa Day speech in Kakamega, the President directed the Agriculture ministry and national Treasury to put in place a framework to pay farmers their Sh2.6 billion arrears. He told governors in the Lake Region Economic Bloc (LREB), to work with Agriculture CS Mwangi Kiunjuri and develop a comprehensive industry revival plan. The bloc is chaired by Kakamega governor Wycliffe Oparanya. The governors said they understand farmers’ problems best. Malala said, however, the payments should be made directly to farmers, not through the millers. “The millers are the problem and if the President’s directive is to be of use, they should not be allowed to handle the cash because it will end up in people’s pockets,” he said. Kizito said paying farmers is the first step in reviving the industry. “Many farmers are uprooting the crop and planting others because millers fail to pay them,”he said. Wangwe, the National Assembly Agriculture Committee vice chairman, said he will ensure the President’s pay directive is implemented. Osotsi said the National Assembly Committee on Implementation will soon table a sugar industry report. “We hope it will complement the revival strategy to be developed by LREB governors and the Agriculture ministry,” he said. The sugar industry supports an estimated 10 million people, largely in Western. It employs tens of thousands on both permanent and contract basis. In his statement, Uhuru said, “Even the money that has been stolen, we shall follow to know where it is and those behind theft will be punished.”