Increasingly, the political class is making it look like constitutional changes and a referendum are inevitable. Most of those calling for sweeping constitutional changes cite the huge wage bill occasioned by overrepresentation in Parliament and county assemblies, and government; and, the large number of constitutional commissions and independent offices.  This line of thinking has come to the fore after Kenyans started feeling the pinch of higher taxes, the realisation that Kenya is spending so much on recurrent expenditure, and how Kenya has been borrowing too much money, so much that the International Monetary Fund expressed concern. As much as the Constitution is not cast in stone, amendments to it must be deeply thought through and necessary. To me, this is a ploy by the political class to subterfuge, and to avoid taking responsibility for the problems Kenya faces. These changes can be addressed without changing the Constitution. For instance, how would a new constitution solve abuse of office, impunity, lack of accountability, electoral injustice, tribalism, outright wastage of public resources, environmental degradation, poor planning, over-remuneration of state and public officers and constant affronts to the rule of law by the very people mandated to protect it? According to an Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission report, Kenya loses a third of its budget — which is about $600 billion — to corruption annually. It easy to blame overrepresentation and commissions set up by the 2010 Constitution, nonetheless, their salaries and remunerations do not even come near the figures caused by theft, graft, abuse of office and inefficiency. The wage bill can be reduced by streamlining national government agencies. In fact, in 2014, the President appointed a task force to consolidate the many parastatals, some of which were duplicating roles. However, judging from the recent state corporation appointments, it almost goes without saying that these reforms — which would have improved efficiency and drastically reduced the wage bill — have been shelved. This means Kenyans will have to wait longer than anticipated to scrap or merge poorly performing state-owned enterprises that have become a burden to the taxpayers.  CONSTITUENCY DEVELOPMENT FUND The entire political class, especially MPs, have clung to Constituency Development Fund despite Justice Isaac Lenaola’s finding in February 2015 it is against the constitutional order. He declared it unconstitutional. Moreover, the fact that MPs maintain a role in the appointment of those who run the fund in their constituencies (often their close associates) offends the principle of separation of powers because such functions are the exclusive province of the Executive at the national and county levels. MPs are allocated about Sh31 billion annually — over Sh155 billion every five years — for development projects in their constituencies, despite a constitutional design that gives that mandate to the counties. For avoidance of doubt, Article 95 of the Constitution clearly sets out the functions of the National Assembly as to represent, deliberate on and resolve issues of concern to the people; to legislate; to allocate national revenue between levels of government; to appropriate funds to the national government and other State organs; and oversight national revenue and expenditure. Nothing in the Constitution gives them powers to effect development projects. To add insult to injury, the National Assembly created another fund called the Affirmative Action Development Fund for the 47 woman representatives for the benefit of women, the youth and the marginalised.  PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION The Constitution required the Provincial Administration to be restructured to conform with the requirements of devolved government within three years of the promulgation of the new Constitution. However, instead of restructuring, the government simply renamed these units and officers to work in parallel to the counties. So, apart from the salaries of county officials paid by counties, the national government has its own payroll for the ‘renamed’ provincial administration officials. For any person who has traversed the country, it is very apparent that devolution has brought unprecedented development to every corner of the country, including areas that had been marginalised by national government. It allowed people to prioritize on what works for them, buttressed human rights, especially free speech and participation of the people, made the court processes more efficient and allowed courts to protect Kenyans from executive and legislative overreach among others.  These things cannot be taken for granted. Kenya is still recovering from the 2017 election cycle. The last thing we need is a constitutional amendment process that will culminate in ‘yes’ and ‘no’ camps, political polarisation and a multi-billion referendum, which will be charged on the taxpayer. Accountability, good governance, adequate representation, fair remuneration, the rule of law, equality before the law, equality, equity, human rights and financial probity can all be achieved without constitutional changes.