The long wait is over and it’s all systems go as foreign and local golfers gear up for this year’s Prime Bank-sponsored Diani Beach Masters which heads to the par 72 Leisure Lodge Beach and Golf Resort in Diani. Leading the foreign legion is Zimbabwean duo of Mohammed and Kayyam Mandhu. Tanzania-based Zimbabwean Farayi Chitengwa, Tanzania duo of Nuru Molleli and Jimmy Mollel are also in the mix. Mumias long-hitting pro Dismas Indiza, who fired an impressive 10 under par 274 at the par 71 Entebbe Golf Club, Uganda, to claim his fifth Uganda Open title, will lead the home brigade alongside Frank Matilo of Muthaiga, David Wakhu (Royal) and Jacob Okello (Golf Park). Immediate former Nyali resident pro Kopan Timbe, Eldoret’s Boniface Simwa and Justus Madoya are among the top pros also expected to spice up the event. Others on the pro list are Mathew Omondi of Vet Lab, Eric Ooko of Royal and last year’s winner Simon Ngige of Thika Sports Club. Ngige racked up the winner’s cash prize of Sh110,000 despite a poor final round score. A total of 120 amateurs and 40 pros will take part in the three-day Pro-Amateur event, which starts tomorrow through to Sunday. After the 36-hole two rounds tomorrow and Saturday, the top 20 pros will make the cut for the final round on Sunday. Amateurs drawn from Machakos club, Nairobi clubs, including Nyali and Mombasa clubs will play on Saturday and Sunday. Royal, Railway and Golf Park have six players apiece with Mombasa being represented by 15 golfers, six of whom will be representing Nyali. Prime Bank business development director, Vijay Kantaria, said the support from the bank is a long-term commitment towards promotion of golf tourism in the country. “Prime Bank continues to support golf through our flagship Prime Visa Golf Card. We are proud to be associated with PGK and more so Diani Beach Masters where we return as main sponsors for the umpteenth time,” said Vijay. “We wish the pros and amateurs a great golfing experience in the coast. We are overly excited to be part and parcel of the country’s vibrant golf tourism industry.”