 National liberation struggles and the subsequent nation
building have dominated Sub-Saharan Africa political development. However, analysts and political observers agree only the
former has produced first-rate political leaders we can rightly refer to as
political giants, amongst them Nelson Mandela and Kwame Nkrumah being the best examples.
  You can hardly count other African leaders in
that category, the rest being political dwarfs of varying degrees. The primary reason why no African leaders since the
passing of these giants have risen to this level is because they have all
failed in the nation building stage, in terms of effectiveness and governance.
Pick any country, and you’ll find the same mediocrity, indifference or simply
moribund leadership from the top that trickles down to the very bottom the net
outcome being economic stagnation and corresponding poverty and lack of quality
living for the citizenry. In Kenya, for example, even though an assessment of the
effects of policies in the country from independence has not been exhaustively
done, plenty of information about the first post-colonial government under Jomo
Kenyatta shows he at times used his power to make decisions that were detrimental
to the economy. President Daniel Moi, who succeeded Kenyatta, did not fare
any better. In fact, many argue he was worse because he ruled for 24 years but
spent much of that time in a very active campaign and efforts to end the Kikuyu
hegemony and replace it with Kalenjin appointees, especially after the failed
coup in 1982. Research shows the last five years of Moi’s presidency were
unproductive, in terms of economic development due to greed and corruption. So much so the landslide defeat of Uhuru Kenyatta in 2002
by Mwai Kibaki was not so much about Moi’s heir than it was a rejection of Moi. Indeed, when Kibaki was sworn in as President on December
30, 2002, East Africa’s largest economy was facing myriad problems mainly put
squarely at the feet of Moi after years of mismanagement. The leadership Kibaki initially showed a strong commitment
to enhanced governance by setting up institutions to fight graft through reforms
under the policy of zero tolerance to corruption, which saw Kenya win the UN
Public Service Award category on improving Transparency, Accountability and
Responsiveness in the public sector in 2007. However, notwithstanding the signs of progress during his
administration, including the promulgation of the new Constitution in 2010,
Kibaki left office with a country only barely better than he found it, denying
him even consideration for greatness as a leader. The digital presidency of UhuRuto was completely consumed
with fending off the executioner at the Hague through much of their first term
in office so not surprisingly, the country did no better than under Kibaki. In
fact, they fared worse in so many ways, given the runaway corruption. To his credit, however, Uhuru knew he was headed nowhere with
Raila breathing heavy over his neck, and thus reached out and had the now famous
handshake. The combination of the handshake and Raila’s appointment
ensures two inevitable outcomes: Uhuru remaking himself as a leader to reckon
and the elevation of Raila to a position that dwarfs those who want to become
President, if he chooses to vie, or an African statesman far beyond he would be
otherwise. Either way, Raila is a happy man and the beneficiary is
our country that now stands a chance to once and for all shake its ugly past
and rid herself of the demons that have bedevilledher all these decades. Thank you, Mr. President and the one and only Raila.  Samuel Omwenga is
a legal analyst and political commentator in the United States