There are seven key values that drove the struggle for the Second Liberation. These are:  Heaven on earth Born in a situation where White
people lived in heaven and Black Africans lived in colonial hell in the same
Kenya, I believed I had a right to live in heaven on this earth as the Whites and not in the life hereafter as promised by their religion. This then
was my vision on earth. From my early youth, it is what I lived for and what I
was willing to die for.  Patriotism Being a colonial subject
born in colonial slavery, I knew I could not attain heaven on earth as long as
Kenya was a British colony. To attain heaven on earth (Kenya), I had to be
politically free. Yet Kenya could be rendered free only by patriotic Africans. To free myself and other Kenyans, I armed myself with
patriotism that guided what I had to do to make Kenya free.  Freedom After freeing Kenya, I believed I
had to be free as an individual or else my life would be meaningless and tasteless. After Independence of the
country, Kenyan people had also to be free through democracy that could only be
realised by abolishing colonial dictatorship and replacing it with democracy.
Unfortunately, because democracy did not follow independence, the youth had to
fight for it the same way their parents had to fight for self-rule.  Justice Once Kenya was free from
colonialism, Kenyans also had to fight for justice without which freedom is not
possible. Unfortunately, justice was served to only a few during colonialism,
making the Second Liberation inevitable.  Racial equality Through colonialism, Kenya had a
system of White apartheid that treated whites as superiors and black
Kenyans as inferior. This White apartheid deliberately discriminated against
and subjected Kenyans to slavery and inferior services. This then made Kenyans
desire racial equality that would equalize Black and White people.
Unfortunately, racial inequality has never quite disappeared, especially in
cultural and economic spheres.  Ethnic equality To ensure Black people did unite
to fight for independence, colonialists ensured Africans lived separately, where they could be divided and successfully ruled because they could not unite
for a common goal. To be one against colonialism, it became absolutely
necessary for African communities to believe they were same and equal. Only
ethnic equality and harmony could allow Black people to unite and fight
together. Unfortunately, this ethnic unity was only temporarily acquired after
which it was lost to this day. However, in the struggle for Second Liberation,
Kenyan youth would unite against one party dictatorship as their fathers had
united against colonial ethnic divisions and negative ethnicity that would
never have allowed them to successfully fight against dictatorship together.  Class equality When Africans were fighting for Independence, they could only do so in class unity that was forced upon them by
colonialism. After Independence, however, a few Africans acquired class
inequality by exploiting and stealing what belonged to everybody. Once there a
few Africans have acquired their wealth, put themselves above others and today
live in areas where the majority Africans who are poor may never live in.
Indeed, class inequality among Africans has endangered great poverty among
masses and transformed White apartheid into Black apartheid, which ensures poor
and rich Africans do not live in the same areas, do not attend same hospitals,
their children do not go to the same schools and nor do they shareocial
facilities. Armed with desire for class equality, class apartheid was one of
the social evils that champions of Second Liberation had to fight against. 