The Kenya National Union of Nurses has asked the government to honour the November 2017 return-to-work formula to avoid another strike. Among the issues they want addressed is harmonisation of grading structure. They say it degrades them compared to other health workers as it does not allow them to hold any position in hospital administration, among others. They also want Kenyatta National Hospital management to address issues of poor working conditions, lack of security, harassment and detention by police. Speaking to the press in Nairobi yesterday, Kenya National Union of Nurses deputy general secretary Maurice Opetu said the government is reluctant to implement the accord as agreed. He said one reason is that the Salaries and Remuneration Commission now has a new boss. He accused the KNH board of ignoring the plight of nurses who want to join the nurses union. “With the new SRC boss in place, now we put the government on a seven-day strike notice that it should immediately give occurrence letter on the implementation of the return-to-work agreement signed on November 2, 2017, in full term,” Opetu said. He called for the harmonisation of grading structure and completion and signing of the collective bargaining agreement. Opetu said this should be done as fast as possible. Otherwise, they will convene a meeting with the union’s national advisory committee, “and the results are well known,” he said. Opetu accused Health Cabinet secretary Sicily Kariuki for being silent on the KNH problems. He urged her to compel the KNH board to allow the nurses to join the union as they havedemanded. “We are a well-registered union and our mandate is to fight for the rights of workers. I wonder why KNH is reluctant to allow our nurses to join the union. We don’t want to strike but they are forcing us to it by avoiding dialogue and using the police to disperse us. Why does KNH operate like Moi Teaching and Referral Hospital? We shall fight for the rightsof our workers’ safety,” he said. Opetu called upon Central Organisation of Trade Union secretary general Francis Atwoli to intervene. He called on him to institute necessary measures with the International Labour Tribunal against the management of KNH. The nurses went on strike for five months last year affecting the health care system.