There is a push to make constitutional changes through a proposed referendum. However, no one knows the question(s). The 2010 Constitution changed diversely the structure of governance, from centralized system of governance to a devolved one. This was envisioned to decentralize power. It further envisaged stronger institutions as opposed to an imperial Presidency. Political institutions are undoubtedly essential to proper governance. Most modern states, like Kenya, have written constitutions that define the formal powers of their governmental institutions. It, however, occurs that in reality, these formal powers do not always translate directly into actual power. The social, cultural, and historical contexts in which formal institutions exist can have significant bearing on how institutions function in practice. It is, however, the nexus that these amendments, which should by law be taking not less than 14 days to debate, are to improve governance that Kenyans should reject. Further is a proposed referendum that does not put the interests of Kenyans first. To start with, whose referendum is this? The explanation earlier in President Uhuru Kenyatta’s first term that the insecurity the country faced, the run-away corruption and generally poor governance is because the “President’s hands are tied” was and remains a fallacy. The insinuation that Kenya cannot be governed by this Constitution, one formulated with public participation, because it is “ahead of us” is also a stupid excuse. This is because the issues that are being re-looked at and amended now were not among the contentious issues prior to the promulgation of the new constitution in 2010. The implementation of this Constitution was bound to have challenges. It however doesn’t call for constitutional amendments or referendum even before we understand it. It should have been understood that the 2010 Constitution came into place to change our way of thinking and our way of doing things. People resist change. Now that we don’t want to change how we do things, why are we opting to change the Constitution instead? The Constitution provides laws and regulations that govern the State, laws that should apply to all equally. Changing the Constitution to fit certain sections of the political divide or those who want to get to power at any given time amounts to nothing else other than constitutional mutilation. It should end as soon as possible before we get another Constitution, different from what Kenyans passed in 2010 As a young democracy, we need strong institutions that will ensure that irrespective of who is President, there is equitable development and distribution of resources, respect of rule of law and human rights, as well as political stability. We have to selflessly protect the gains of 2010 Constitution.  Kibii comments on current affairs 