Two teachers who survived the early morning al Shabaab attack in Mandera where two colleagues were killed have vowed never to return to work. The two, Elijah Nderitu who taught English and literature, and his colleague Kevin Lomosi, survived death by a whisker after militants raided Arabia Secondary School in search of nonlocal teachers. A visibly terrified Lomosi who spoke to the press in Mandera town on Thursday said Tuesday evening was just like any other day. “We took supper with three of my colleagues and it was now time to sleep in separate rooms, but in the same compound. At 2am on Wednesday, I heard about five men speaking in native Somali, commanding us to open. After realising we were not opening, they lit fire in an adjacent room to force us to open. Our two colleagues opened their doors and were shot dead, “ Lomosi said. “After killing Philip Okumu and Daniel Wekesa they came to my room, but due to too much smoke, they could not see me. I put a wet cloth on my face not to suffocate.” Nderitu hid himself next to the bed and the militants were unable to see him because of the thick clouds of smoke. After the killings, the militants fled to Somalia which is barely two kilometres from the school. The survivors hid themselves in a nearby bush until police on Wednesday took them to Mandera town. Speaking to the Star separately, Mandera Knut executive Kullow Sheikh, while condoling with the families of the slain teachers, said the attack only worsens an already bad situation. “As a county, we have never fully recovered from the 2015 incident where we lost several teachers at the hands of the militants. The incident led to a massive exodus of nonlocal teachers. As a result, education was badly affected,” he said. “It is high time the government walks the talk and ensures the security of our teachers, especially that of nonlocals is well taken care of. This narrative being advanced by militants of targeting a certain group of Kenyans will have far-reaching effects on our education as a region.” Northeastern regional commissioner Mohamed Birik has reassured students, parents and education officials who will be charged with administering the exam of sufficient and elaborate security arrangements to ensure the examination goes on smoothly.