Here are five books based in Kenya, Ethiopia and Malawi
that I have been reading lately. I got them to help me plan a trip to these
parts of Africa, and would therefore recommend them to any travel enthusiast.  Email from Ngeti: An Ethnography of Sorcery, Redemption,
and Friendship in Global Africa, by James Smith, Ngeti Mwadime The story of a friendship between anthropologist James
Smith and his researcher Ngeti Mwadime, a charismatic young man from the Taita
Hills. Blaming family members and sorcery for thwarting his efforts to become rich, Ngeti seeks answers from unusual sources, embarking on a journey that
takes him to local diviners, witch-finders, Pentecostal preachers and prophets.  The Girl and the Sunbird, by Rebecca Stonehill This has an epic sweep, beginning with a feisty young
girl’s arrival in East Africa in the early 20th century to marry a man she has
never met, and who quickly turns out to be a poor match. She strikes up a
friendship with a local teacher, and they embark on a forbidden relationship
with devastating consequences. The story takes the reader on a journey from
early colonial Kenya to the time of the Mau Mau rebellion in the 1950s, where
the heroine makes an unexpected discovery.  Where Giants Trod, by Monty Brown For anyone heading north to Turkana, this is a great handbook
to take. The first section explores the diverse tribes sharing the area, and
is an invaluable guide to understanding their traditions, many of which still
exist today, before moving onto gripping tales from the first European
expeditions to this region, starting with Count Samuel Teleki. Thoroughly
interesting, deeply researched and well-written account of early attempts to
explore this region.  Ethiopia on a Mule, by Dervla Murphy The gripping journey of a doughty Irish woman who sets
off across the Ethiopian highlands with just a mule for company in the late
1960s. She chronicles the joys of simple travel, sharing morsels with
impoverished villagers and dealing with the shifta. A travel account at its
most thrilling and rawest form.  Venture to the Interior, by Laurens van der Post Classic and compelling account of van der Post’s
explorations in Nyasaland (modern-day Malawi) after being tasked by the
post-war British government with finding out more about two mysterious
mountainous regions. So begins an exploration into the massif, where weather
patterns are unpredictable and calamities can arise in dramatic fashion. Beyond
the gripping outward exploration aspect, the book is also an exploration of van
der Post’s inner journey, switching from his time as a Japanese prisoner of
war, to his reflections on race, progressive for their time, in colonial
Africa.