A man went into a forest one day with an axe and asked the trees for a small branch. The good-natured trees obliged and gave him a branch. The man then fixed it into the axe head and set about cutting down the trees.  Of late, there seem to be direct attacks and confrontations with the President, undermining him and the presidency. Worse still, some of these attacks are from within Jubilee.  Last week, some Bomet MPs walked out on the President at a function, claiming that they had been disrespected as they had not been given an opportunity to speak. It was clear that the MPs walked out on President Uhuru Kenyatta, and not the governors. From the rallies that followed, it was clear the MPs had planned to use the event to raise their grievances. Their grievances can be aired in other forums such as Parliament and Jubilee Parliamentary Group meetings. This particular event had a clear agenda — to discuss how the Lake region counties can collaborate and use their strengths for joint development. The MPs, who came from the host county, not only disrespected the President but also betrayed the residents of Bomet who elected them. MPs must work with all other leaders to ensure that plans aimed at benefiting wananchi succeed. Away from Bomet, we have seen other elected leaders bash the Building Bridges initiative, and even attack former Prime Minister Raila Odinga. We forget that if Raila had not agreed to shake hands with Uhuru, the country would be hurtling towards the precipice. The handshake has brought stability, peace and tranquility, compared to this time last year when Nasa transformed itself into the National Resistance Movement. This environment has enabled the country to focus on development. After the African Union appointed Raila special envoy, some politicians called on him to retire. Consequently, his supporters have come out to defend him. This negates the purpose of Building Bridges. Why should he retire? Isn’t the nation richer with Raila contributing to its transformation? Who says his time has come to leave active politics? I believe that when the time comes, Raila will tell us he is retiring. The President has also come under attack for publicly admitting some of his officers are failing him. Some politicians have even said he is the number one failure because he is the head of government. It takes strength and humility for a leader to stand before those who elected him and tell them that he has not done enough. Uhuru’s admission is an indicator he is in touch with reality. There are others who want development in their regions but are always the first to attack the President when he says we need to collect more taxes or seek more funding from donor countries. We cannot have our cake and eat it. We have to not only respect the President but to also support him in his endeavour to keep Kenya united. Like the trees, we may one day regret not following his leadership.   The writer is a
political and communications consultant  