State House operative Dennis Itumbi, a close friend of Jacque Maribe’s, has spoken out about the Citizen TV news anchor’s life in prison for the last two weeks. Maribe is being held at Langata Women’s Prison amid the murder trial of Monicah Kimani, 28. The Digital Innovations and Diaspora Communications Secretary has shown solidarity by visiting her in detention. “She will tell her story at one point,” Itumbi told Word Is in a phone interview. He said he is sure justice will prevail for them all. “Jacque has been strong, confident and even happy because the truth will prevail, no matter how much lies you put in,” Itumbi said. “I have met her family and we have been together in all this because whether guilty or not, they will remain to be our friends.” At Langata Women’s Prison, Jacque has been receiving a throng of visitors, including media personalities and politicians, but none of them have been allowed to access to her with their phone. A source who visited Jacque told Word is: “She is wearing prison uniform, slippers and is only allowed to have three or four visitors per session.” The source added that “she can choose to see you or not. The prison warders normally write the names of the people who have shown up to see her on a piece of paper, and she okays the list of those who will be allowed to access her”. Itumbi said the prison has been receiving Jacque’s visitors every day from 8am to 12pm. Others also check in from 2pm to 3.30pm. Also on weekends from 9am to 4:30pm. Earlier on, Jacque was detained in Gigiri and, according to her lawyer, Katwa Kigen, it was not a bed of fresh smelling rose petals. In his application to court, Jacque’s lawyer pleaded for reasonable access to Jacque. “Since her incarceration, it has been very hard to access her. And when access has been given to counsel, your honour, it has been made available in a public space, which makes it very difficult for the confidential conversation between a client and her advocate to be conducted,” Kigen told the court. Yesterday, Itumbi wrote an emotional letter to Jacque’s son, asking the young boy to always remember that despite what is happening, his mother loves him and that she has friends who stood by her. Explaining the letter, Itumbi said, “At one time, her kid will look at what was happening to her mum and not only see that but also appreciate the fact that she had a strong support system.”