A company has sued Postal Corporation of Kenya (PCK) for illegally terminating a land lease agreement even though there was a court order barring them to do so. In a case filed at the Environment and Land court in Machakos, Romiko Channels Limited wants senior officials of the corporation found to be in contempt of court orders. The company has sued the corporation for terminating an agreement it entered into with them for a lease of a vacant plot of land in Machakos town accusing them of not paying rent. Romiko moved to court to contest the termination of the lease pending judicial review proceedings, but they claim that the corporation has failed to change its decision despite being served with the court order. The company has sued PCK legal officer, Samuel Mburu among others for disobeying the court order. “The respondent in contempt of the said orders has negligently and without justifiable reasons put another tenant on the said property and who is now putting up business,” the court documents state. According to them, the actions of the Corporation, the company states, are unfair, unreasonable, irrational and illegal requiring the intervention of this court,” the company says. They claim that on January 22, 2018, an order was issued staying the decision by PCK to terminate its lease agreement and the court ordered them to remain at the lessee of the plot. Romiko argues that the Postal Corporation of Kenya has breached the terms of the lease entered on June 11 2014. “The respondent while knowing that it was in breach of implied terms of the lease terminated the lease on grounds that the applicant had failed to make payments for rent and had failed to take over possession of the leased property,” they claimed. But in their replying affidavit, PCK, says it had already entered into an agreement with a third party for a lease of the same property before the case was filed at the High Court. The case will be mentioned on November 22 for submissions. Click here for the latest political news