A water cannon salute awaits Kenya's maiden US direct flight on arrival at JF Kennedy International Airport at about 2pm today. A ribbon will be cut at the ramp before guests are ushered to a brief ceremony which will culminate into the cutting of a commemorative cake. Transport CS James Macharia, Kenya's Ambassador to the US Amb Robinson Githae, and UN representative Lazurus Amayo will receive the plane at JFK. Foreign Affairs CS Monica Juma, US Ambassador Robert Godec, PS Esther Koimett, and Transport CAS Chris Obure are among those on board. Others are Kenya Airways chairman Micheal Joseph, CEO Sebastian Mokosz, and CNN journalist Richard Quest. After a toast, CS Macharia, Monica Juma, PS Koimett, and Ambassador Robert Godec will move to the holding area to await the flagging off of the return flight. At around 5pm Kenyan time, Kenya Airways will host a Farewell Reception for the return flight, KQ003, which is scheduled to depart JFK at 8pm. Non-traveling US media will be given an opportunity to tour the plane and take photos as guest arrive. The VIPs who will be on the return flight include KQ Chairman, Amb Godec, CEO of JFKIAT, Obure, Herb Wallen of Boeing and a Senior US govt official who is yet to be named. There will also be a cocktail reception for those who have travelled in the inaugural flight from 6pm to 8pm (New York time). The Kenya Airways guests will also be treated to a tour of New York City and an afternoon lunch on Tuesday before preparing to leave on Wednesday night. Also read: Young innovators make it to KQ list for maiden US flight Deputy President William Ruto is expected to receive it on Tuesday at about 10.30am. The same will be treated to a water cannon salute and musicals from the Kenya Police band. On Sunday, President Uhuru Kenyatta officially flagged-off the historic flight with 234 passengers in a colourful ceremony at JKIA. Read: Uhuru to flag off inaugural direct flight to US tonight A direct air link with the United States has been tipped to give Kenya increased access to the US economy - the biggest in the world. Besides Kenya, Cape Verde, Egypt, Ethiopia, Nigeria and South Africa are the other African countries with the Category 1 access to the US. Click here for the latest political news  