Religious leaders in West Pokot have accused elders of forcing residents suspected of witchcraft to drink blood mixed with herbs. Clerics say they themselves have also been ordered by elders to drink concoctions and take an oath so they can use spiritual powers to “disclose witchdoctors and sorcerers”. Police have warned against the practice. Seven people have been arrested for coercing people to drink blood. Yesterday, the Pokot Pastors’ Network held peaceful protests in Kapenguria town. The clerics said they live in fear and some have fled their homes after their colleagues were beaten and forced to drink concoctions and take oaths. The practice began in North Pokot subcounty but has spread to the rest of the county, clerics have told the Star. The elders say, however, that witchcraft is hurting the region’s development and the ceremonies known as kikemat are meant to cleanse it of evil. Residents are split, however, on whether the elders are right to impose the ritual to flush out sorcerers. Some say it will help eradicate witchcraft from society, while others have expressed outrage that their religious and cultural rights are being violated. The church leaders say participating in rituals is against their faith and demeans Pokot traditions. Chairperson Ronald Chumum said residents have been traumatised and others driven from the community for failing to take the oath. “I encourage Christians to resist this. We’ve reported to security officers after a public uproar over the bizarre traditional activity,” he said. “Some people have been admitted to hospital, and some have filled in P3 forms and recorded statements with the police. We have the right to worship according to the Constitution. Christians have been forcibly removed from the church, beaten up and told to drink the concoctions.” He accused the elders of taking advantage of the rituals to settle old scores. “We don’t know where the blood is from and from which animal,” Redeemed Gospel Church pastor Joseph Katho said. Resident Loriso Musa said those who refused to take the oath had fled and their property and animals were confiscated. “My neighbour’s goats and cows were taken away. People are being dragged and forced to drink potions,” he said. West Pokot subcounty police commander Anthony Wanjuu warned the community against the bizarre ritual. He said Kenya is governed by laws and the Constitution and suspected criminals must be reported to the authorities. Wanjuu said some residents stoned a police convoy during a crackdown on those behind the blood ritual and oath. The officers fired in the air to disperse the youths before they arrested some culprits. Practising witchcraft is against the law.