Kenya and Namibia on Friday signed agreements to bolster cooperation on tourism, youth and political consultations. The signing of the agreements were witnessed by President Uhuru Kenyatta and Namibia’s Hage Geingob who led their delegations in talks. Uhuru said the agreements present new opportunities for stronger partnership. “Our countries share similar aspirations and challenges so we can draw from each other’s experience to complement our expertise,” Uhuru said. He urged Namibia to explore new areas of cooperation including marine and fisheries development, mining, expansion of trade and investment in sports and culture. Uhuru thanked foreign ministers from two countries for the inauguration of the Joint Commission for Cooperation which remained dormant although it was signed two decades ago. He cited basic education, vocational and University training, including teacher exchange programs in Mathematics, English and Sciences as an important area of cooperation that should be cultivated. “We further look forward to strengthening cooperation in the health sector with enhanced transfer exchange of workers in specialised areas,” Uhuru said. Read: Switzerland, Kenya sign pact to trace stolen funds Kenya is also keen on enhancing cooperation with Namibia in agriculture and livestock management. “We welcome collaboration in the field of quality seed production, especially for drought resistant crops,” Uhuru said. He commended Geingob’s Harambee Prosperity Plan, saying it resonates with Kenya’s Big Four agenda. Uhuru said Kenya was honoured with Geingob’s visit. The Namibian leader will be the chief guest during today’s Mashujaa Day celebrations to be held in Kakamega. In 2015, Uhuru attended Geingob’s swearing-in ceremony and was among guests during Namibia’s Independence Day celebrations. Geingob said he appreciated Kenya’s contribution to Namibia’s liberation struggle and stability. “It is befitting for us to recognise the sacrifices Kenya made as a country by contributing outstanding soldiers to help in safeguarding our stability,” Geingob said. “We have awarded General (Rtd) Daniel Opande with the second highest honour in Namibia and we invite him to come and receive it on behalf of all Kenyans.” Geingob also paid tribute to founding President Mzee Jomo Kenyatta for spearheading the Pan-African Movement that led to the liberation of many African countries including Namibia. He reiterated support for Kenya’s bid for a non-permanent seat in the UN Security Council in 2021. “I assure you that Namibia fully supports Kenya’s candidature,” Geingob said. The two leaders poke during a press conference at State House on Friday. Deputy President William Ruto, Cabinet Secretaries Monica Juma, Henry Rotich, Sicily Kariuki and Margaret Kobia were present. More: Jersey, Kenya sign pact to return Sh380m stolen assets in Okemo, Gichuru case Click here for the latest political news