MCAs in Homa Bay on Tuesday roughed up Speaker Elisabeth Ayoo for allegedly being biased. Ward representatives threw water bottles of water at Ayoo in the Assembly's plenary. The incident occurred when the Speaker was announcing to members the changes made in leadership positions. The changes involved the positions of the Majority leader, Majority whip and their deputies. Former Majority leader and Kwabwai MCA Richard Ogindo were replaced by Kanyadoto MCA Walter Muok. Nominated MCA Ruth Ombura was replaced by Joan Ogada as Deputy Majority leader while Sophie Koweje was replaced by Arujo MCA Mary Ojala as Deputy Majority whip. However, there was commotion when Ayoo started making her speech. A dissatisfied group started shouting her down. "You’re biased! You’re biased! And we know which side you favour…” one of the MCAs shouted. Some reps went on, “Sit down; sit down there’s nothing you’re telling us.” More on this: Speaker adjourns sittings indefinitely after chaos at Homa Bay assembly Also read: Homa Bay reps fight in bid to fire House teams chairpersons Deputy Speaker Evans Marieba and Homa Bay Central MCA Julius Nyambok protected the Speaker after some members started throwing bottles at her. Ayoo tried to leave her seat for the chambers but some MCAs blocked her. "Don’t, don’t, don’t, you need not to fight the Speaker,” Nyambok shouted. The situation became rowdy and prompted the sergeants-at-arms led by John Oyoko to use force to rescue the Speaker who had been overpowered by male MCAs. An MCA, who sought anonymity, told journalists that some members wanted Ogindo and his allies removed from positions. He said members felt the Speaker had a soft spot for one side. "They claimed Ogindo's name had not been removed from the list of the assembly service board," the MCA said. The sergeants-at-arms rushed the Speaker to her office and locked her in for more than an hour. She later returned under tight security to adjourn the sitting for two weeks. Last month, some MCAs warned the Speaker to prepare for impeachment, accusing her of being biased. However, she refuted the claims. Homa Bay residents condemned the fight. Head of Homa Bay Bunge la Wananchi Walter Opiyo told ODM party to crack the whip on errant MCAs. Click here for the latest political news