The stakeholders including sports personalities, federations and investors—say the Public Finance Management (Sport, arts and Social development Fund) Regulations 2018 bill, will compromise the Sports Act, oversight roles and sports management in the country if passed into law. They say the Ministry of Sports will have no control of the sports fund since the administrator will be appointed by the Treasury CS. The stakeholders say the Sports Fund Bill is supposed to be under the Sports Ministry as indicated in the Sports Act. They question why the President will have limited powers as compared to the CS with powers to appoint the Chairman to the Sports Fund board as well as appoint three independent members. The federation will also not have representatives on the board. They want the Attorney General to sit on the Board of the new fund to help in the oversight and creation of laws which will make the fund effective. They warn the new Sports Fund Bill will duplicate the roles of the Sports Act 2013. “The Sports Act 2013 is the key legislation governing sports and sports funding in Kenya. The objects of the Regulations are similar to the objects of the National Sports Fund as captured in Section 12 ( 2 ) (b). This is a duplication of roles which is not allowed by the Constitution due to wastage of public funds,” they say. They say the Ministry failed to follow the Public Finance Management Act 2012 section two that demands the Cabinet Secretary to establish a national government public fund with the approval of the National Assembly. “The National Sports Fund shall be required to apply for funding from the new fund yet the Sports Fund was created to fund sports from the lottery and taxes from betting under the Sports Act-2013 & the Sports, Arts & Culture Regulations 12 ( 2 ) (a),” Kenya Table Tennis Association (KTTA) chairman, Andrew Mudibo said. They say the fund has now been reduced to a borrower and a lender as envisaged in the new constitution. Mudibo said the new structure weakens sports federations represented on the board by creating more players in the bureaucracy to seek funds hence more delays and more harm to sports and athletes.