Trans Nzoia county requires more than 10,000 acres for expansion of Kitale town and other public facilities. The county has suspended implementation of several key projects due to grabbing of public land. Deputy governor Stanley Tarus on Friday said they have written to the Director of Public Prosecutions Noordin Haji and the DCI to investigate massive grabbing of public land. He said they want those involved arrested. Tarus said development of the Kitale Sports Stadium is among projects that have been put on hold after individuals grabbed the land it was to be set up. “We have reached a point where development of public facilities, including schools and hospitals, have stalled because people have grabbed every available land for public projects,” Tarus said in Kitale. He said the land grabbing problem is going on despite making reports to agencies tasked with the responsibility to investigate. The deputy county boss said they had also written to the National Land Commission over the grabbing menace. “We are requesting the DPP to accelerate investigations into cases of land grabbing. People who took our land are walking free, yet the public lacks important facilities like schools and hospitals,” Tarus said. He said the county administration will repossess the grabbed county stadium land. “As a county we cannot rollout our plans because certain selfish people have decided to take stadium land and other public plots in Kitale town,” Tarus said. He said the issue of land grabbing should be tackled the same way as corruption. Tarus said Kenya Railway has made a commitment to lease out part of its idle land within Kitale town to the county government. He said the move will help the county government rollout some of its programmes. They include construction of a business park and a modern bus park. The deputy governor said the economy growth of the county has stalled for years owing to declining business activities. “For many years we have not provided opportunities for businesspeople persons in terms of space because we have no land to expand our town. All public land was grabbed,” Tarus said. He said the county administration will develop a training centre in Endebess and Cherangany subcounties to tap into immense talent among youth.