Western leaders were to ask President Uhuru Kenyatta on Friday evening to urgently intervene and revive the failing sugar sector. Uhuru was to meet leaders from Kakamega, Busia, Bungoma, Vihiga and Trans Nzoia counties at the Kakamega State Lodge. The meeting was a follow up to the one held at State House two weeks ago. The President will lead the nation in today’s Mashujaa Day celebrations from Bukhungu Stadium in Kakamega. Regional leaders want Uhuru to address issues affecting residents. Kakamega governor Wycliffe Oparanya said on Friday that all elected leaders from the five counties were to meet the President. “We shall discuss various issues and tell the President what our development priorities are,” Oparanya said. He was briefing reporters on preparations for Mashujaa Day celebrations. Interior PS Karanja Kibicho, Senator Cleophas Malala, Woman Representative Elsie Muhanda and county commissioner Jaldeza Abdirazack attended the briefing. On Tuesday, Oparanya said that the President is expected to announce the government’s plan for the revival of the sugar industry. Malala said Uhuru should also address infrastructure development during his visit. The senator also wants increased allocation to Masinde Muliro University of Science and Technology. Kibicho said preparations were complete and that security had been tightened. “Hosting celebrations in Kakamega is part of the government’s strategy to promote counties both nationally and internationally and market them to potential investors,” Kibicho said. Visiting Namibian President Hage Geingnob will be the chief guest, Uhuru announced during a joint press conference at State House Nairobi yesterday. SEAT OF POWER National celebrations have been held in Nakuru, Nyeri, Machakos and Meru counties since Uhuru announced rotational hosting. On Friday, Kakamega county continued pulling down kiosks along the Kisumu-Kakamega-Webuye highway to make the town look tidy. Street families have also been cleared from the Central Business District. Residents have been pleased by the new face of the town. Both county and national flags fl y from major buildings and along roads leading to the stadium. George Kamau said that the county government should keep the town neat after the celebrations. “Kakamega has changed because the seat of power is temporarily being moved to the town. We hope more national celebrations will be brought here,” Kamau said. Tony Maleche said he was happy with improved security following the presence of the KDF, AP, regular police and GSU offi cers in the town. On Friday the military had taken over operations at the venue. Most dignitaries will be accommodated in Kisumu because all Kakamega hotels were fully booked, Oparanya said.