Kenya Simbas require Sh18 million for the repechage World Cup qualifiers slated for next month in Marseille, France. Kenya Rugby Union (KRU) last week raised Sh1.1 million at the Karen Country Club through their paybill number 155550 in an effort to ensure the country is represented. However, the amount was a far cry from their Sh10 million target. KRU acting chief executive officer, Sylvia Kamau, said the money will be used to pay the players’ daily allowances when they travel to the repechage as well pay the local coaches allowances and salaries for New Zealand coaches Ian Snook and Murray Roulston until the end of November. The union also has to pay for accommodation when they play Romania ‘A’ on November 3 in Bucharest as well as insurance cover for the 30-man squad. The Romania Rugby Federation will foot part of the costs for the team. World Rugby have facilitated payment of air tickets for the build-up match. Kamau admitted challenges in raising funds for Simbas. “It’s not easy. We have spoken to government but nothing has come from them. We are appealing to the corporate world to come on board and support the side. It’s been very tough especially without a sponsor to fund the side,” added Kamau. Kamau said qualification to the World Cup will change the face of rugby in the country. “This will be big win not only for the players but also our clubs, women’s team and Under-19 boys team. It will mean we get access to more resources to fund the the various teams going forward. I t will also help us to be competitive in the various international tournaments we play in,” he added. She expressed confidence that the side can qualify for the global tournament. “We came close last time in 2014 and in terms of preparation, we are ready. We would have loved to play the build-up matches but it was out of our control. The team is more than ready for the challenge ahead,” she added. The Simbas face Canada, Hong Kong and Germany for the repechage in Marseille, France. The team departs next week on Wenesday and they are expected back on November 25.