The first non-stop flight from New York has landed at JKIA. The 234-passenger plane landed at about 9.20am, slightly above 13 hours after it left JF Kennedy International Airport on Monday. The Boeing B787-8 Dreamliner (5Y-KZE), christened "Magical Kenya", was scheduled to touch down between 10.30am and 11am but arrived earlier than scheduled. The flight KQ003 was also treated to a water salute on its arrival in Nairobi. See: KQ003 leaves New York to Nairobi on return leg Deputy President William Ruto was at JKIA to receive the plane. US ambassador to Kenya Robert Godec joined him. The DP cut a ribbon at the ramp before guests are ushered to a cake cutting ceremony. He challenged the national carrier to enhance customer services. "It would be an exercise in futility for the country to celebrate such a milestone only to be crippled by poor customer relations," the DP said. "Good customer service is the heart of every successful organisation. I want to appeal to Kenya Airways to up their game when it comes to this." Ruto added: "Let our guests and your clients feel proud of your services. Even KTB must take this advantage and offer an exceptional welcome to our visitors." The DP further hailed Kenya's tourism offers calling it a country where humanity began. "...as it is said, unto whom much is given, much is expected." Ruto said the non-stop flight is a great game changer for tourism, trade, and aviation industry. The DP said KQ must be commended for having risen above all the stringent conditions to make the non-stop flight happen. He said the flights will see Kenya position itself as more accessible to the US market. Ruto said the flights will not only improve JKIA’s stature but also position the country ahead in terms of regional competitiveness in aviation matters. Also see: [VIDEO] What awaits KQ's direct flight on arrival in New York For his part, Godec said the non-stop flight presents an opportunity for more trade and investment between the two nations. "More people than ever before will have the opportunity to see and experience the natural beauty of our two nations." Click here for the latest political news 