Agriculture CS Mwangi Kiunjuri yesterday told a Senate team he has ordered a fresh test to establish if maize held by the NCPB is safe to eat. A report by the Kenya Bureau of Standards had indicated that some maize might not be fit for consumption. Kiunjuri told the ad hoc committee investigating the maize crisis that the matter is sensitive and must be handled with care. “I would like to ask the committee to give us until Monday when another report will be presented to me. That’s when I’ll be able to tell if the maize is fit for consumption,” he said at Parliament Buildings. The committee chaired by Uasin Gishu senator Margaret Kamar quoted a report saying about one million bags at the National Cereals and Produce Board depots could have spoilt. Last month, Trade CS Peter Munya and Kebs told the committee that maize worth Sh8.05 billion was yellowing after overstaying in the silos. Yesterday, Kiunjuri said about 3.6 million bags bought mainly from traders for Sh3,600 a bag will be sold for Sh1,600 after millers opposed high prices. Last year, the NCPB bought 3,626,973 bags ( 90kg each) worth Sh11.63 billion from 12,287 farmers and suppliers, he said. Farmers have been paid Sh9.4 billion and are now owed Sh2.2 billion. Read: Kiunjuri distances himself from Sh6bn NCPB scandal “The ministry is waiting for further allocation of funds from the National Treasury to clear the debt,” Kiunjuri said. He said the rogue traders who supplied maize and were paid at the expense of farmers will be punished. The CS cautioned, however, that blaming him is uncalled-for and humiliating. President Uhuru Kenyatta has twice lashed out at him for failing to rein in cartels and ensuring farmers get their dues. Kiunjuri said the DCI is investigating graft in the NCPB. “In March, I gave that information to the National Assembly and communicated to the DCI and the EACC,” he said. He blamed the National Treasury for the entry of the excess maize imported during the duty-free window from May to October last year. The Agriculture ministry did its part by outlining why the country needed additional maize and the shortage that existed after a prolonged drought, Kiunjuri said. On Wednesday, Treasury officials, led by Cabinet Administrative Secretary Nelson Gaichuhie, denied wrongdoing. They blamed Agriculture ministry for the excess imports. Read: MPs summon Kiunjuri over Sh1.9bn NCPB scandal Click here for the latest political news