Homabay Governor Cyprian Awiti has faulted the appellate court for declining to consider the outcome of a scrutiny report and recount of votes that affirmed his election. Through Professor Tom Ojienda and Otiende Omollo, Awiti told the Supreme Court that the scrutiny exercise reinforced his win but Court of appeal Judge Karanja Joseph deliberately refused to consider crucial evidence that proves allegations raised by Awiti’s opponent were false. “Where people have exercised their will and a clarification is done by recount and then a Judge makes a mistake by not taking into account that recount, then it becomes a fundamental sabotage of the will of the people,” said Ojienda. Ojienda said the appellate court should have been cautious in that if it relied on the scrutiny report then the petition filed at the High court ought to have been dismissed. The scrutiny and recount of votes in 400 polling centres across the county had been ordered by the Homa bay election court. “A court orders for scrutiny to have a true reflection of what transpired on the election date and to be able to ascertain the will of the people. If that will is discernible from the scrutiny exercise, then the court is called upon to preserve that election,” said Ojienda. The professor told Chief Justice David Maraga, Justices Mohamed Ibrahim, JB Ojwang, Smokin Wanjala, Njoki Ndung'u and Isaac Lenaola that one the scrutiny was ordered it became part of evidence and proceedings which the judge of the appellate court didn’t use. “It is our submission that the deliberate failure to consider crucial evidence by a trial court becomes a question of law before the appellate court and the appellate court is bound to consider the evidence that has been deliberately ignored by the election court,” said Ojienda In a swift rejoinder, Oyugi Magwanga who is challenging Awiti’s election told the court that there was a systematic pattern of reduction of his votes to Awiti. He alleged that Awiti colluded with the IEBC to deliberately alter the FORMS 37A by systematically deducting a variance of 100-200 votes from the petitioners and adding the Petitioners the same. Read: Homa Bay's Awiti, Magwanga poll fight heads to the Supreme Court Through Lawyer Charles Kanjama, Oyugi said seals of ballot boxes containing the polling station diaries had been altered with and a scrutiny exercise that is done where polling station diaries have been compromised have minimal value. “It cannot be confirmed whether there has been any interference with the ballot diaries before the scrutiny has been done. This is because the ballot boxes with the polling station diaries were broken two weeks after petition was filed. We can't tell whether they were interfered,” he said. Oyugi urged the court to order for a by election within 60 days and the county speaker be allowed to take up in acting capacity the governance of homabay county. The IEBC as currently constituted do oversee the elections within a period of 60 days. But Awiti urged the court to set aside the judgement and orders delivered by both the Court of Appeal and High and declare that he was duly elected as the Governor and Orata as the Deputy Governor of Homabay County. Click here for the latest political news