Was Deputy President William Ruto present during the launch of Kenya Airways’ maiden flight to the US or he arrived late after State House had issued a communique to the media? Well, yesterday, the State House communication team in what appears to be a deliberate omission of Ruto from those who accompanied President Uhuru Kenyatta to flag off the flight sent a statement to newsrooms listing everyone who was present except the Deputy President. As if hit by a certain guilt, another statement was again sent now with the DP’s name. According to our moles, the omission was intentional and continuation of a silent scheme by some powerful forces to undercut the DP. Gives credence to snippets Corridors published two months ago about apparent moves within the presidency to limit the Deputy President’s exposure through systematic withholding of his pictures taken with some high profile visitors, or releasing them past media deadlines.  Two CEC members from a county in Nyanza have become the talk of the town. Reason? They have turned into a couple and are painting the town red. The two are involved in a ‘serious’ relationship that has left their colleagues tongue-tied. Interestingly, the governor — whose wife is a close friend of the two — is equally helpless. Members of the public are now reaching out to the EACC to investigate whether the affair between the two officials, who are separately married, passes the integrity test of Chapter Six of the Constitution.  Still in Nyanza, some patients in a major hospital in the region are furious with a county secretary in one of the key counties who has been using his wife and children to supply eggs to the facility. They say the matter raises issues of conflict of interest as eggs are not part of their menu in the health facility. They now want the governor and Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission to look into the matter.  What happened to the ban on meetings, including prayer ones, for candidates getting ready for examinations in schools during third term? Well, social media has for the past two weeks been the arena for displaying pictures of prayer meetings in various schools across the 47 counties. Which begs the question whether some of the stiff regulations were the personal view of former Education CS Fred Matiang’i or ministry policy. Some stakeholders now want Education CS Amina Mohammed to maintain the strict regulations she inherited from her predecessor like banning mobile phones at examination centres to curb the temptation to cheat in the examinations which kick off today.  Click here for the latest political news     