Don’t advance your 2022 political ambitions using Raila Odinga’s name under the guise of “no referendum tag”, Ugunja MP Opiyo Wandayi has warned. “Raila only suggested that if need be, we will have to go for a referendum to repatriate the country from the hard economic times and already some have started going round advancing their political ambitions using the referendum tag,” he said. Wandayi said ODM will not entertain cheap politics as it is time to deliver, not politick. He differed with a section of Coast MPs on the need to reduce the size of government through a referendum, arguing that they should consider a voice of reason. Read: Politicians split on Raila’s call for referendum Wandayi said reducing the size of the government is one of the long-lasting solutions to the high cost of living and the high taxes. He spoke in Ugunja during the burial service of Moses Amoth on Saturday. Wandayi said even as they struggle to slash the VAT to zero, it will be futile if the size of government is not reduced. “We must accept that we have a bloated government and to cut on unnecessary spending and high taxes, it must be reduced for a long-lasting solution,” he said. Getting priorities right The legislator said the country cannot afford to have a bicameral parliament, when it is struggling with basic development to an extent of going for unsustainable loans. Wandayi said as a country, we must first get our priorities right before yearning for any development without imposing high taxes on citizens. The Parliamentary Accounts Committee chairman said the challenges the country faces are complex and need long-term solutions “If we don’t offer the long-term solution to our problems, there will be no reprieve for Kenyans as we will be only tackling symptoms as opposed to the cause,” Wandayi said. “Those lashing at Raila for his noble proposition of addressing the root cause of high taxes through a referendum are the same people who opposed him when he warned of unnecessary borrowing that has brought about the high taxes.” Wandayi said as a party, their dream to capture state power is still valid and they must offer a solution to Kenyans in time of need like now. “Yes, we had taken a tactical retreat but that does not mean we don’t have the interest of our people at heart,” he added. Read: Raila builds momentum for Constitution change Read: Raila says Constitutional changes will help fix Kenya’s perennial ills Click here for the latest political news